you lay out three traits of ultra
successful people yeah I don't know if
they're yours or if you read them
somewhere this is so brilliant and when
you said it you put words to something
that I have felt for a very long time
yeah um if you don't remember them I
have them here but if you remember I
remember them yes uh and so it's there's
three traits that people then they
looked at because they were trying to
find Habits of Highly Successful People
and when they actually pull it apart
it's not you know and I hope I'm not
contradicting anything um but there's
people who are really rich who wake up
really late and work really late and
there's people really rich who wake up
really really early and there's people
who really rich who eat really healthy
and there's people really rich who drink
Coca-Cola and eat french fries every day
and so there's all these things that we
want to make as truths but there there's
easy examples that counter those things
so it's like what are the few things
that are true or at least that seem to
be present in all of the situations and
it seems as though there were
surprisingly few and so the three common
traits that they had they had found were
one that people have superiority complex
they believe they're better than others
and they believe that they deserve more
than everyone else does and that they
can accomplish big goals right so they
have a bigger Vision because they
believe they deserve it or whatever it
is that they were able to identify that
the second thing that they were identify
is that they had crippling insecurity
and which which is a paradox of
paradoxes they feel they'll never be
enough um and they'll always be measured
against the things that they've achieved
and so you've got this crazy dynamic
between they they think they're better
than everyone they think they deserve
more they want to go after this big hill
and at the same time they fear they'll
never be good enough they'll never
actually achieve it and they actually
suff
and then the third piece which kind of
adds the beautiful like mix of this is
impulse control yeah and so they're able
to control their actions and focus on a
single thing for an extended period of
time and so if you put those three
things together it's like you've got a
big goal that's pulling you this way
you've got this big fear that you are
running away from and then you've got
impulse control to keep you focused on
the one thing that matters yes and if
you do that if you if you are the type
of person who has those traits then you
are very likely to be successful you
gave me the chills twice while you were
explaining that so this is I'm often
asked like hey you know what does it
take to be successful or how did I get
successful and I'm like from the time I
was a little kid so I grew up lower
middle class and but from the time I was
a kid I told everybody I am going to be
rich like you don't understand I'm going
to be rich I was so angered by not being
able to get the things that I wanted as
a kid and I had a little problem with
authority and so I felt like I was being
told that I had this box of stain and I
was like no no no I'd always had these
crazy dreams and I just believed I could
make it come true yeah but I'm
terrifyingly insecure that I'm not smart
enough to pull it off and I have
something I need to prove to myself to
my wife my father-in-law my own parents
like I just no matter how much I
achieve I still have this right so I I
have this crushing need to validate
myself and to feel like no you really
did have it kid yeah and but I am
psychotic at my ability to delay
gratification yeah like I can suffer and
toil and grind and just like I don't
need to eat the marshmallow for a
hundred years right which is stupid in
some ways but you put those three things
together and you just go and go and go
it's really gave my I yeah yeah so to
the marshmallow point because I think
this is really interesting and I don't
think it's talked about enough which is
they they like to separate the kids into
the two buckets right like uh the kid
who waits for two marshmallows and the
kid who just says I want the marshmallow
now but I feel like they should have a
third bucket which says how long do they
ask the kid to wait for the marshmallow
right because it's not do you have like
because I like to think of things like a
lot of times we have false dichotomies
or we have binaries where're like good
or bad you know disciplined or
undisciplined I'm honest or dishonest
right when I think more reality is to
what degree am I honest to what extent
am I disciplined to what degree am I you
know loyal right oh God there's a whole
conversation there yeah and so I think
that each of those three three traits
that we just went over it's it's not do
I have them or not for the people who
are listening because people like to
think yes I have it or like oh well I
have all three of those it's not having
them and I'm sure you you've interviewed
some of the most successful people on
the planet it's how much do you have
yeah right and so I think that like your
ability to delay gratification it's not
just like oh I can wait a week or I can
wait a month but it I made this tweet
that that went pretty viral and it was
like if you can wait a
year you can make a ton of money like if
you can do something for 12 months you
can not need for financial goodness
pretty much for the rest of your life
I'm not saying you're gonna be hella
rich but you're not going to need for
anything if you can wait 12 months if
you can wait a decade you're going to be
above the 1% if you can wait 10 years
for an outcome be able to do the doing
without seeing the result for 10
years you will be able to be above any
most achievement of most people and if
you can wait a lifetime and you don't
even need to to see the result of your
doing this even while you are alive but
know that it may get done after you pass
then I I believe that you can change the
world and I mean that and so I think
that if people can just extend the time
Horizon that they're measuring
themselves on they can just do so much
more I mean you've probably heard the
Bill Gates cour where he says people
overestimate what they can do in a year
and underestimate what they can do in a
decade I think it's the same thing just
continue to draw out and I think as I've
as we've been able to you know achieve
more leverage and make more money Etc my
my Horizon has extended and when I
listen to the people who are the people
who I want to emulate I can almost tell
by the measurement of money that they
talk about and the measurement of time
that they discuss how successful they
are or how successful I think they're
going to be like if I talk to a
25-year-old and he's talking about what
he wants to do in two decades and his
whole plan of what he's going to do as
long as he's not just blowing smoke
because he's heard an interview from
me um then I'm like this kid's got it he
gets it he gets it and most people just
don't think they they can't wait 90 days
they most people can't even wait a month
right they start a diet and 14 days
later they don't have a six back and
they can't wait but like if you do a
year you can look whatever way you want
for the most part you know by and large
and if you wait a year for the ability
to learn how to sell you wait a year for
the ability to learn how to Market wait
a year just providing value to a a group
of people for free and then delaying
your ask you can do whatever you want
now and I don't know how you're going to
react to this if we can separate that
idea from being patient yeah so I made a
shirt that said patience okay but
yeah if you're not playing the long game
you're screwed so my thing with patience
is you have to go all out at a
sprinter's pace tot and run a marathon
at a sprinter's pace if you want to
achieve something yeah that's where
people fall down you'll find people that
can wait but can they and this is one of
my all-time favorite CES I'm pretty sure
it's Winston Churchill though people
often attribute things to him who knows
uh success is the ability to go from
failure to failure without a loss of
enthusiasm now now there are people that
can go from failure to failure but do
they lose the enthusiasm can they attack
it as hard I was telling you at the at
the end of this year we have a plastic
table that I'm going to smash into
little pieces because it has come to
represent like the hardest thing that
I've built in my professional career
just all the problems that have
been associated with it and but I'm
still going after it as hard every day
and when I think about like so because
I've had success and I know how many
people are chasing it and I can just say
people a lot of time it's not going to
give you what you think it's going to
give you so like don't bother chasing
that kind of success uh so an easy way
to say it is uh don't worry about
winning a championship ring worry very
much about becoming capable of a
championship performance that will be a
far more interesting life because you
really do want to get that good yeah but
in the pursuit of that thing in getting
that good it's like it is going to take
an inhuman amount of concentration
willingness to fight through the pain
and suffering and an ability to attach
enough meaning and purpose to it that
you'll keep going when you're just
getting kicked in the face over and over
like it's crazy and so knowing how badly
people want that I want for them that
thing like how whatever it is and and I
have a method that I can teach people
how to do it but most people still won't
do it which is to build the desire to
create an association between the doing
that thing yeah and the meaning and
purpose that you want to have for your
own life and that it's not going to seem
self-evident you have to bolt it on it
feels kind of fake in the beginning but
if you really invest and it really is
something that you care about it can't
be fake but if it really is something
that you care about and you build that
intense Association then you can fight
through that but boredom kills more
entrepreneurs than fear or failure ever
will when you say boredom do you mean
that they're starting something it's
starting to work and then they just
switch because they're add or no I mean
that doing something where you don't get
the result that you want and it's 10
years out and you're going to have to do
what Jeff Bezos calls overhead right no
matter how much you love your job
there's always overhead there's boring
yeah and what I find is people they
can't stay on task I find in myself a
strong desire not to stay on task
because it is boring it's just boring or
even worse if it feels bad
yeah and you have to keep doing it you
have to wake up every day and face that
like this is really going to be tough
and it's going to be tough for a very an
undetermined amount of time so it's not
even like I know it's going to be a year
yeah it's there's an unknown amount of
suffering before me and I have to
somehow continue to muster the
enthusiasm and have faith yeah that this
theory that I have is actually going to
work out or that I'll get better right
that maybe this Theory isn't the Right
theory but I'll be able to figure it out
it's interesting you say that because um
we talk about need to believes when
we're thinking about a company that we
want to like invest in and so it's like
what are the you know we try to have as
few need to beliefs as possible for you
know a growth thesis to happen um and
then not only do we want to have as few
as possible really interesting need to
believe like I need to believe that this
is true for this outcome to be possible
yeah so how do we have as few of those
as possible and how do we have that
those need to belief statements are as
high likelihood as humanly possible
right so it's like do like if we had a
business that was rying on and you know
an inflationary period or something I'd
say like okay well I believe that that's
you know it's high likelihood that it's
going to occur okay so I feel okay about
that one and if that was the only thing
I need to believe for this whole
business to be successful like where do
I write a check because the only thing I
so it's how many of these are there
right and if there's a lot of them then
with each additional line our likelihood
of getting the AUM we want goes down um
and so I think that if reversing that
for success for somebody who's coming
along is
like what amount of action would it be
unreasonable for me not to be successful
and so for me it's like I I believe that
if you do 10,000 cold calls you'll
you'll get better like it would be
unreasonable for you not to be good like
after that level of effort if you if you
run you know if you take half your
paycheck every month or a third of your
paycheck every month and you say I'm
going to advertising University which is
I'm going to spend money actually
advertising trying to get people to
click on this thing and give me their
name and phone number if you go and you
spend that amount of money on actually
advertising after a year after two years
you'll probably you'll probably be
pretty good especially if you join a
community to other people who are doing
the same thing right you see got mentors
who are doing who who have done and and
give you Frameworks that you can just
work off so you can shortcut your path
to success it becomes unreasonable that
you wouldn't be more successful in the
future than you are today and so I like
thinking about things in terms of
directionally correct rather than will I
hit it or not right I think there's so
many binaries because it's easy
psychologically for us to say yes no
honest dishonest Etc successful not
successful um but it makes making
decisions really hard because you're
like is this the path for me is this the
product going the business I'm going to
start where I was like well if I started
something I would be more likely to be
successful than if I did not start
anything and from there I will gain
experience and perspective to then make
the next iteration on the main thing and
I was Quest your first thing ever first
successful thing but You' done other
stuff before that and failed and I I
still I was I was like I hope Quest
wasn't as first thing um most people had
thank God it wasn't honest most people
had a graveyard of failures before they
had their actual first success and so
most people spent all this time um a
different tweet that went viral it said
like with 20 hours of focused effort
most people can be pretty decent at
something whether it's guitar it's
singing even cold calling if you
actually cold call for 20 hours focused
effort you'd be decent but most people
spend years waiting to do the first hour
whoa whoa and so it's like how can I
decrease that action threshold and get
someone to just just just embrace the
suck and so it's like how can I
normalize nose so it's like if I'm
teaching somebody to sell it's like dude
I need you get a 100 nose all right just
get 100 nose for me I don't care about
the yes just get 100 Nos and the thing
is all of a sudden if if the no becomes
the goal then they realize that it's
about the process and not the outcome
and then they will become better sales
people because they stop being afraid of
it the same thing like for training
salesperson I want them to hear the gasp
right which is like you say a price over
the phone everyone's afraid of the price
it's like dude if you didn't get a gasp
you didn't go high enough right they're
like what I'm like oh you failed
terrible sale they didn't gasp they're
like really and so then it becomes it
flips it and it becomes a point of Pride
it's like oh I C her you should hear the
gasp on this one and so all of a sudden
they stop being afraid we normalize we
do like exposure therapy on the things
that people are most afraid of and I
hope that with all the stuff that we do
that we can do that in a microwave for
at least a handful of people so they
just start doing and realize that
they're going to gain perspective and
the light of their knowledge will give
them the next foot but the thing is
they're stuck on the first one trying to
pick the first path when they had no
idea what they're doing was selling ever
hard for you like the idea of selling
not that I'm sure you were bad at it at
one point but was the idea of trying to
convince somebody to buy something yeah
I uh so when I quit my job um my dad's
buddy was in private Wealth Management
in marinch and so he called me up and
was like hey you should sell for me and
I to this day and he jokes about it now
with me um I said H sales I was like I'm
not a Salesman I was like I'm an
academic you know what I me I just come
from you know on builds and I thought I
you know whatever and um and then lo and
behold I signed my lease I slept on the
floor and and I was like how do I pay
rent and woman walks in the door and I
was like I need to get her to give me
money so I can pay rent and I was like
oh this is sales and I didn't know so
for me it was just begging people to
give me money in the beginning I like I
promise I'm going to give you the best
results ever um but uh the idea of sales
was very I I thought it was beneath me I
thought it was scammy I thought it was
you use car s you know just like the
abhorent you know that' be the right
word but um yeah and then I through
exposure I uh realized that it was and I
ended up in life's irony being something
that I've really fallen in love with
there there are people on the internet I
will let them remain nameless that they
give me the heebie GBS I am deeply
uncomfortable with something in the way
that they sell and I've actually never
taken the time to figure out what it is
and I probably should I'd make a lot
more money but there are people that
make me deeply uncomfortable and then
there's something about you so I'd never
heard of you somebody pinging me was
like yo you need to check this guy out
and I looked at your stuff and I'm like
there's something about the way that you
talk that is super matter of fact it
isn't the I have nothing to sell you
because you're an incredible salesperson
so even when I interface with the way
that you sell it doesn't creep me out
I've I've not thought about it enough to
know why but I bet you have what is it
that makes a salesperson creepy and why
aren't you
creepy why aren't you creepy the best
the best interview question I've ever
had um so I I thinking a lot about this
because I'm outlining the next book
which is so the next book is leads and
I'm already done the draft and you know
how that is where I'm like I'm not done
that book but like I'm like I can't wait
for the next book um and so I'm thinking
through like what what is it that that
sales is overall right it's structuring
a conversation to increase the
likelihood that the person who's on the
other side gives you money that's what
it is it's structuring that conversation
that way and structuring that
conversation I heard you mention
something that you call and I am so only
aware of like proper sales you said
holding the frame it's not about the
words you say it's how you say them and
whether you can hold the frame is that
what you mean by structure the call all
of it yes I mean so what is what is the
structure what is holding a frame like
what does that mean so
in I've like I love sales so so when
you're when you're when two people
interact in general no matter what man
woman child whatever two frames Collide
and I believe it's animalistic whatever
it is there is a there's a decision of
who is Alpha now the alpha is also
contextual and so you can be Alpha in
like the president of United States is
Alpha everywhere until he goes into a
doctor's office he tells to pull his ass
and he sticks his finger up right frame
right in that room doctor is King right
he is the alpha in that setting in that
context and so the ability to hold the
frame for most for most salespeople is
really having a sounds crazy having a
clear agenda in controlling the
conversation which is
why are we here right because it a lot
of sales is clear communication because
if you clearly communic because the
biggest advantage that a salesman has is
that the person has already said they
have a problem most times right so if
someone responds to a Content piece and
says hey can you help me they've already
annunciated they have an issue they have
a problem and so you already have the
inherent advantage of the frame which is
you said you needed help I'm here how
can I help you right and so it starts
with that right it's it's being clear
about why we're here and then we get
agreement that we understood the problem
that they said they had next and then
from that point we have to turn the
desire into a decision which is okay you
say you want these things here's the
frame that I want to give you to analyze
the decision can we agree to this Frame
right and so for example if I were
selling marketing services and I so
whenever re we rework a sales script
with any of the portfolio companies
which is one of the things that we do to
make them grow a lot of times they have
all this gobl you cook right and so I
like the shortest possible
we can because a lot of communication is
wasted right so what happens a lot of
times on a sales call is they say hello
build rapport talk for 30 minutes see
that there's time that's running out and
then realize they have to pitch right
and so then they motor mouth and then
just awkwardly ask right and it is to
your point about it seeming icky right
or sucking um is that it's not normal
human communication and you're not
providing value to the other person and
so if giving Clarity to someone on a
decision is tremendous value and so if
you can sell in a way that clarifies a
decision my objective always when I
teach sales the goal is not to get the
person to buy the goal is to get the
person to
decide and I believe that people don't
decide for only three reasons and this
comes from Albert Ellis this is not me
but people blame all the wos of their
lives on
circumstances other people and then
ultimately themselves and so when we're
overcoming obstacles in a sale we have
to make sure that we are account for the
circumstances which is taking away time
as a reason they can't do it taking away
money as a reason they can't do it
taking away particular aspects of the
product as a reason they can't do it we
have to make sure that they don't cast
their power to other people and saying I
can't make this decision someone else
has to make it and then finally when
they're with themselves they want to
avoid the decision they want to delay it
they want to not make it I'm not going
to think about it right and so the idea
is that I believe that if you sell
properly you can talk to an empowered
person and you have to basically sift
through the crap that they're telling
themselves about why they can't decide
why they have to talk to their husband
why uh the circumstances of their
situation matter and so I think that if
you can do that and communicate that in
a conversation you are you have made
someone feel powerful and you've given
them the tools to make a decision and
then in making that decision they take a
step towards the life they want to have
and so if you can structure a
conversation that way it's not ay it's
value additive and then ultimately you
do make more money but you're not
focused on that because you're focused
on helping them make the call and if we
can do that you can sell whatever you
want and I think that's like that's what
I try and structure and that's why I'm
so excited for the sales book when it
finally comes out but most of it's clear
communication when I listen to sales
calls CU I still kind of do it because I
like it um it's like therapeutic you
know what I mean um there's so much
there's so much waste there's so there's
not no people aren't direct it's like
why are we here you and someone's like I
just want to get more information that's
an obstacle no you didn't you're not
here because you want more information
you're here because you're suffering
from a problem you don't just hop on
sales calls all day to get information
no you're trying to solve something
right what are you trying to solve what
are you in pain from
got it so let me make sure I understand
this label the problem right so it's
like a lot of people just don't know how
to talk and they just make face noise at
each other and no one's listening and no
one's talking they ping pong back and
forth no one actually is listening yeah
they're not communicating at all right
they say a statement I mean someone says
I literally just listen reviewed a sales
call yesterday guy says uh I'm not sure
now's a good time salesman then responds
with uh well you know I'm not sure if if
you're a good fit if you're if you're
not sure because and just goes off on
this weird tangent and then there's a
pause and the guy just asks another
question no communication happened it
was like I have a question you just said
a bunch of words and I guess it's normal
for me to say something else now and so
then he just asked another question
right and so it's clear like what and
then normally when you overcome these
sorry I can talk about this forever but
like when you overcome these obstacles
with somebody's like I don't have time
right I'll just give you a simple one
because this is one this is for
everybody who's listening because right
now you're probably not doing something
because you're like I'm too busy I'll
start when it's convenient whatever if
you say that as the excuse for not doing
something then there's an assumption
underlying that that says that if I get
busy again in the future I will
stop and so do you want the success that
you want to be long term yes then do you
believe that you'll never be busy again
for the rest of your life no so then you
might as well start when you're busy so
that you have the most support because
if you learn how to do it when you're
busy when you get when it gets quiet
you'll succeed even more and when it
gets busy again you know how to do it
because that's how you start it right op
overcome and then one step closer to
making a decision and so what happens is
in the even in the obstacle process when
people are trying to sell stuff people
start from the outside in so it's so
easy to say I don't have time it's the
easiest thing to say I don't have time I
don't have money right and then once you
peel you you show them how that's a
fallacy it's a logical fa it's a
distortion of reality you peel that back
you get one layer closer to them my wife
won't let me my partner won't let me my
kids so you can feel like it's it's
closer to you right and you peel that
out because how do you overcome that
well five years from now if you didn't
do the things that you wanted to do with
your life and you blamed your wife the
whole time because she wouldn't let you
do it who you going to blame her is that
fair for your marriage for your
relationship what do you think no so I
think what you're doing is you're asking
for permission instead of support all
right and here's how you have that
conversation with your wife right so now
we're we're we're sliding the other side
of the table and be like let's play this
out right it's not going to go the way
you think it's going to go because if
you keep repeating this habit you're
going to 5 years from now you're going
to look at your life the same way you're
looking at now and hating it and who
you're going to blame now you're 5 years
in you still kind of like your wife 5
years from now you might not so much CU
you've had 10 more times you tried to do
something she said no so it's today the
day right and so we peel one layer and
then finally you're at a person who's
squirming there right because you you've
forced them to confront reality which is
now they don't want to make the decision
right because they're like I'm just
going to avoid it I'm not sure etc etc
and you're like hold on like I've got
you you know what I mean like we're
going to get through this cuz you cuz
you're just waiting through the
that people tell themselves right and so
finally when they're in the avoidance
part the biggest fear they have is
making a mistake right they don't want
to be seen as stupid they don't want to
lose status as a result of this decision
and so when we're when we're when we're
dealing with
that it's making them understand that
you don't need time to make a decision
you need information and if the only
source of the information you have is
May then let's talk what are the
variables you're going use to make the
decision and a lot of people haven't
even thought through that it's like well
if you don't know what they are why
don't I walk you through four that might
be
useful does this thing solve the problem
the way you want it to be solved yes or
no yes do you want to work with us yes
or no yes do you know someone do you
have access the amount of money to get
started with this program yes or no yes
great let's do it right and so you can
walk someone through it and it's like oh
wow like and like you feel like just one
of this magical journey of like all
these things of why the reason they
haven't they decided not to make
decisions but so many people are stuck
in that same spot for why they're not
taking action whether it's selling a
product or selling themselves and I
think that those Frameworks of thinking
through each of those problems and
there's I have a zillion of them for
each of those things um I had to develop
because I use those on myself so I was
like I have to give myself a compelling
reason to start doing stuff I have to
give myself a compelling reason to make
decisions when I don't want to I have to
give myself a compelling reason that I
can explain to a partner of why I made
this decision right later and so by
doing that it decreased the time between
me getting information and acting and
then It sped up my decision Loops in my
life in general and then obviously I
applied that to sales but I've applied
it to
everything when I say these beliefs I
don't say these as a an affront to
anyone who shares different beliefs to
be clear um but for me a very core
belief that has been I think intrinsic
to at least the material success that
we've experienced has been a belief that
meaning is self ascribed so that there
is no inherent meaning in the things
that we do um or the actions we take or
the outcomes that happen U but only that
which we ascribe to it um and so because
of that I feel like it's allowed me to
the point of what you were saying about
like the amount of pain and the amount
of suffering that you have to go through
in order to to achieve the things on the
other side I think it's been able to
it's allowed me to reframe a lot of the
discomfort into what if this just is how
it always has been or what if this is
actually
amazing and what if this is exactly what
it should look like and so I think a lot
of times it's the it's the discrepancy
our expectations in reality that shape
the emotions that we have in response to
any given situation bad good Etc and so
I think a lot of people can't control
their state and I we deal with this with
a lot of the portfolio companies is it's
like it's funny because I don't even
necessarily want to get in this I want
to talk about like the business and
what's the strategy how we're going to
execute this stuff but you know there's
a big percentage of time where they're
stressed and they think there's
something wrong with that so I feel like
a lot of people feel like there's
something wrong with experiencing human
emotions and so they are stressed and
then think there is something wrong with
them or they are sad and I know that
this is the thing that the keyboards are
you know fingers are right on top of it
it is my belief it is contrarian I
accept that that it's it's the beliefs
we have about our emotions that are the
things that drive us mad facts and so
somebody's sad and then they tell
themselves that're they're bad because
they're sad or they're wrong to be sad
or they're a piece of because
they're sad um rather than saying isn't
this a beautiful thought about human
existence like if I could not be sad
then I would not experience Joy so like
if I say that I don't want to be sad
anymore then I would also have to give
up Joy am I willing to do that no well
then this is just a part like I can't
say that I want sunny days if there are
no rainy days like we don't say weather
is good or bad it just is and so I think
to the same degree The Human Experience
is also that way too at least how I
Define it and so I think having that as
my backbone frame in terms of my
worldview although though contrarian has
helped me a lot in dealing with the
things that often derail entrepreneurs
on their path to getting what they want
and so for me that's been very helpful
so from a contrarian standpoint of like
Bel you know Peter the's question like
what closely help belief do you have
that most people don't agree with that's
one of them um I'm scandalized by the
way that that one is something that
people don't hold I think that people
get themselves in trouble
because uh they believe the opposite of
the following quote there is nothing
either good bad but thinking makes it so
yeah and they think that no there are
things that are objectively good and bad
and I simply recognizing the truth that
is the that's certainly what I struggled
with the most in my own life that I was
simply when I had a negative view of
myself or anything else I was simply
recognizing the truth of the situation
not understanding how the belief I had
about the thing was influencing my
behaviors and my behaviors entirely
determined My outcome and so then I was
like well hold on if if my behaviors are
predicated on my beliefs and my outcomes
are predicated on my behaviors then my
outcomes are actually linked to my
beliefs and so I've got to go in and
make sure that I'm believing things that
are effective and so my whole thing is I
only do and believe that which moves me
towards my goals now the next question
that people ask is well then does that
mean that you believe things that aren't
true and the answer is unintentionally
no and the reason is unintentionally
know is because that to me something is
true based on its ability to increase
your ability to predict the future and
the outcome of your actions that that's
what's true if I touch this hot stove
it's going to burn me yeah I believe
that to be true because hey I've touched
hot things before and they actually do
burn me and so when you can like in
sales if I structure the conversation in
this way it's more likely to lead to an
outcome that thing is true just because
you've run the experiment enough times
to be like yeah that actually gives me
the ability to predict the outcome of
these actions you can reboot your life
your health even your career career
anything you want all you need is
discipline I can teach you the tactics
that I learned while growing a billion
dooll business that will allow you to
see your goals through whether you want
better health stronger relationships a
more successful career any of that is
possible with the mindset and business
programs and impact Theory University
join the thousands of students who have
already accomplished amazing things tap
now for a free trial and get started
today and when I encounter people that
either don't even know what their own
belief system is and so they they think
this isn't a belief this just is true
about the world I'm like no that that is
a belief that you've chosen to believe
in it's completely you
up one of my favorite quotes I think if
there were to be a quote that would be
on my Tombstone it's it it's top three
which I love a lot of quotes um it's
Orson Scott Card he said uh we question
all of our beliefs except for those that
we truly believe and those we never
think to question yes and so it's cuz
you truly believe it and those are are
the ones those are the pesky ones those
are the ones I think um I was told
because you get asked a lot I'm sure
like hey I'm going to talk to a mentor
what question should I asked them and I
got this really good one which is what
do I believe to be true that
isn't whoa and so it's a great question
right and because I'm sure you see it
and if I talk to somebody I can tell
like they they cast these views of what
is and what isn't about business about
marriage about health whatever it is and
they say like and then they and then
they operate off of that framework of
assumptions which is might be patently
false and then they wonder why what
they're doing is not working it's like
because the entire Foundation upon which
you built this thing is just wrong right
and so um the EAS you know the easiest
way to do that is to get people who are
ahead of you who tell you by the way I
don't think that belief is true but you
have to get in a place that somebody can
actually communicate that to you and be
open to it yeah and then you have to do
something about it which most people
don't otherwise you get one piece of
advice and people like oh God you're not
going to do anything with this like that
that's the hard part so I saying impact
Theory University where I always thought
all I would ever teach is business and I
found that to get people primed to do
the business part I first had to deal
with all the lies that they were telling
the beliefs like the self-destructive
behavior all that once you could get
past that then they had an actual shot
at running the business but because
success is the ability to go from
failure to failure to failure without a
loss of enthusiasm and the ability to do
that is predicated on the story you're
telling yourself about yourself you
believe that it was all like this
mindset like rats nest of like
God if I can help you like peel this
stuff back you'll be able to get out of
your own way but most people can't but
it's really interesting when you were
saying that I was like part of what
makes like when you hear somebody speak
and they really resonate with you they
give you the chills you get excited it's
because they're either putting words to
something that you felt but you didn't
know how to articulate and now it's
super Concrete in your mind or they make
you realize you believe something that
wasn't true yeah and that's when it's
like I you feel like you're being set
free totally and that's like that's
really exciting it's like a weight
vanishes that's my that's what like
that's what I think sales is is that is
that people have these beliefs and you
have to know like the the process of
being a good salesperson is being able
to help people break the beliefs that
they have about themselves or about the
realities that are not true and so I
think if you can basically just
unencumber somebody then it becomes very
easy to sell someone because if you have
this struggle we have this solution do
you believe that buying this solution
will get you more likely to get to the
outcome you want yes what are we doing
let's go you know what I mean just but
talking to that person you have to weit
through all this stuff but like I beli
that like you know I speaking that it's
like I believe that you could start a
call and just be like you want to do it
and then just start from there right
like depending on what someone's
consuming beforehand um
but I'll tell you one of the things
that's that shaped my life in terms of
business stuff is understanding the
concepts of of Leverage right and so a
lot of people are limited um by either
the skills the beliefs or the traits
they have right and so the skill
deficiency is the easiest one to fix
it's like go do
repetitions in a community of people who
are also doing repetitions to learn the
same skill and you will learn it quickly
right that's the thing then you have
traits and beliefs which is a little bit
more morphous right and so from a from a
belief's perspective it's you need
someone to tell you stories that you
believe to be true that conflict with
your view of reality and then their
their the evidence of their story being
truer than yours then that it's like a
frame control that frame now wins and
that becomes the new lens that you see
everything through and so I had a friend
who had a fitness app and he was doing
20,000 a month he was a CrossFit
competitor really high up he didn't win
of course how like he's like he didn't
win so he didn't want to tell anybody
that an app because you didn't think he
deserved it he didn't deserve to have an
app cuz he didn't want anyone to know
cuz he's like how dare I make a fitness
app cuz I was only fourth in the world
you know what I mean or whatever it and
then all of a sudden he talked to
somebody he got over it and then he just
started just telling people he had an
app and he went from like 20,000 a month
to $100,000 a month and so it's not that
his skills changed it's not that his
traits changed he was still just as
hardworking same looked the same Etc I
was like it's just his beliefs right and
I'm sure in the in The Entrepreneur
Space one of the most common traits is
is Focus right people can't do the same
thing over and over again they just do
all these half built break
and so I know for me my big explosion
happened in my entrepreneurial Journey
when I went from having nine businesses
that is not a not a missp nine as in one
less than 10 at the same time that I was
CEO of all of so I had a I had a I had a
dental agency marketing agency I had a
chiropractor marketing agency I had gym
launch where we'd fly out and do gym
turnarounds and then I had five gyms of
my out Jesus at the same time and I was
somehow perplexed as why I wasn't making
any money I was there's like everything
was always on fire all the time and I
always just sold my ass off enough to be
able to pay all the bills and have
nothing left over that was the that was
how I rocked it um and it was only you
know when Lila came in and she was like
you know I think maybe if we just did
one thing you could win cuz she was like
imagine like imagine if all you had to
do is make one of these businesses work
how easy would that be I was like oh my
God if I only going to make one of them
work it would be a joke and like I heard
myself say that and I was like you're an
idiot why are you so dumb and so like
the trait that I was missing at that
point was Focus Andor discipline I
couldn't say no I didn't have that
muscle so that was a trait I lacked and
so it's like boom and then that blew up
and so it's like sometimes the question
is which of these things do people lack
um and so since we don't always know
because we don't have the perspective to
judge ourselves often it's like you just
got to keep moving in all of the
directions getting those communities and
then like that's ultimately like I'm a
big believer in the alternative
education space the whole Guru space
that everyone you know laments and hates
um I learned everything from that space
I have a feeling speaking to the people
that are caught up in the um they're
they're wasting their time they're not
doing the things that they need to do
they're they're going to need to create
some structure now that structure may be
as simple as what you're talking about
which is because if if from my frame of
reference the way that I would put
thoughts in my own head about what
you're saying is I have a rule and this
is a literal rule of mine I only do and
believe that which moves me towards my
goals which sounds very akin to what
you're talking about it's like if I do
this thing I get this output uh when I
wake up early I've had better things
happen when I'm in shape better things
happen when I put in the work better
things happen um and
ultimately that's the thing that I'm
trying to get people to Anchor around is
their everything that you do is a test
MH your test will have results it's what
I call the physics of progress so to
make progress one must have a hypothesis
know where you are know where you want
to go
understand the obstacle between you and
that come up with a hypothesis about how
to overcome that obstacle run that test
look at the data very frankly don't BS
yourself and then come up with a more
informed hypothesis and try again over
and over and over and over uh but
ultimately you're steering by results
and I think very often people either
don't know how to in fact I think
there's a few things that will happen
one they don't know how to conceive of
the problem so they don't understand the
obstacle two two they don't know where
they're going or three they cannot break
themselves out of the dopamine cycle
they haven't identified the pain they're
moving away from whatever insecurity
they have and so they end up in that
death Loop of um feeling like they don't
have enough time when in reality they
have the same time as hyper efficient
successful people they just don't use it
in the same
fashion I think SI said that um we all
think we don't have enough time but it's
really we
just don't use the time we have well
um and I think I think a lot of it is
around like how we how how we choose to
pick our identities to your point
earlier like someone might say like man
I'm
lazy I I would say like that's amazing
like a lot of great CEOs are lazy that's
fine um let's use that and so let's just
make working more convenient than the
other thing and then your laziness will
take over you I mean just like in terms
of how we can frame the problem right
like as a as an example you're saying
earlier with the iPhone um like
scientific study anyone can do this you
can decrease your iPhone usage by simply
going to
grayscale like across age groups if you
switch your colors on your screen to
Grays scale you will lose use it 30%
less than you normally would it's like
great for most people that's like an
hour plus a day 30% is an hour plus oh
my God yeah whoa I think it's way I mean
I think average iPhone usage is probably
like I mean I think one hour is like
conservative on that I think it's like
like might be even two
yaza yeah hours it's like there you go
found your time you can make all your
content you can all the stuff you watch
a movie the time that you have from
saving it but like anyone can do it and
so just like how many how many of these
little things can I make convenient
right so like if you're like if you're
trying to eat healthy right I mean
obviously like we both came from that
space it's like well you just make it
more convenient to eat healthy than eat
unhealthy it's like okay well remove all
the stuff in your house that you don't
want to be eating make sure all the
snacks you have are protein related
snacks um you know anything that has
calories in it that's a beverage
don't include it right like just the
just simple things that all of a sudden
you're like I'm hungry and you're like
you're like I've got cucumber slices and
uh and protein chips you're like well
what do you think will be more effective
that or dehydrating the horse I think
that is dehydrating the horse
interesting that one's never spoken to
me one because that's not my problem you
can fill my house with snacks and if it
either violates one of my rules which
I'm obsessed with because I created them
and they're designed to give me the
results that I want or they violate my
identity I'm not going to do it yeah uh
that's unique to you I I think that's
like a Tom like 1% thing just me from
the outside I think a lot of people have
a hard time following rules you don't
think people will drive 30 minutes to
gorge on something I think they could
but they're just as likely to break a
rule and I think it'd be I think it's
it's more likely that they will break a
rule because it takes less effort to
break the rule to themselves than it
does to drive 30 minutes and so I just
want to make it as inconvenient as
possible to do the wrong thing and as
convenient as possible to do the right
thing that will clearly be advantageous
so in no way is what I'm about to say
arguing against that uh so huge love
that total support on board now uh
having said that I have a feeling that
the thing that people are up against and
and I thought a lot about this with food
at Quest I wasn't thinking oh I need to
make this convenient that was part of it
and we certainly were not blind to the
fact that giving somebody a package good
that they could carry in their purse was
going to be really helpful but the
Mantra I kept saying to myself was I
want to make food that people can choose
based on taste and it happens to be good
for them because I think people will go
way out of their way violate rules all
that uh to eat something that makes them
feel the way they want to feel and if I
had to Anchor all of my fears around
people not being able to accomplish what
they want to accomplish it would all be
around the things you're going to need
to do don't feel the way you want them
to feel and because they don't feel the
way you want them to feel you Veer
towards the things that do make you feel
the what the way you want to feel now
part of that you can accomplish by
reframing but part of it I think is
inescapable you're going to do what
feels good and you're going to avoid
what's painful for the most part okay I
love this
so one of the one of the big misnomers
in my opinion around discipline is that
people who who like some people might
look at me and say that oh Alex is
really disciplined but I actually really
do what I want to do every day and it
just so happens to be work that is
productive and and makes money but that
statement that you made earlier that uh
people shoot what did you said you said
people do what makes them feel the way
they want to feel right and then they
you said well oh it's because it's not
making them feel the way they want to
feel and my only addition to that would
have just said
yet just yet and so it's usually because
their Extinction curve is too low right
on the behavior and so if I go let's say
I'm the best door knocker in the world
best door knocking sales guys and I
knock on Five Doors I might not get an
answer from any of those five doors and
I walk away and I say I guess door
knocking isn't for me and I might be the
LeBron James of door knocking right but
if the sample size is too small because
my Extinction curve just cuts off really
fast I'll never know and so that's why
it's like if if you can give the thing
the opportunity to reinforce its own
behavior then it goes from external to
internal right like video editors for
example like there's people who love I
mean we're going to film school right um
in the beginning you suck at editing
film but then you like make the letters
appear and you get instant feedback and
you're like whoa that was rewarding
right and then you do it again and then
you learn another technique and another
technique another technique and so then
the behavior itself becomes rewarding
and you begin to like work right you
begin liking your work and so I think it
really is that just getting over the
hump in the beginning of knocking on a
thousand doors rather than five and
realizing that it would make sense that
you would suck because you haven't done
it before um but knowing that if other
people have done it too that there is a
reward that will eventually come and it
will reinforce me just like it has every
other human before me who has done this
and I think just like one of my my core
you know assumptions um as I like to say
um is that if if somebody else can do
these behaviors I can do these behaviors
and get the same outcome you know
barring external environments timing and
things like that but you know assuming
that those are the same like door
knocking to sell solar today is the same
as it was last year and if I see
somebody who's number one in solar and I
do the same behaviors as them I will
likely get an outcome that is decent and
so I that that's what gives me uh
confidence going into a new environment
is modeling somebody and just being like
ignore all of these other things what
are the behaviors how many times is you
know is this person you know how how
quickly do they walk from door to door
do they only go to apartment buildings
or they you know like what's their what
is all the steps that they do
operationalizing success um rather than
kind of like the the theorizing that I
feel like happens a lot and I think
that's to be fair I think the reason a
lot of people kind of like some of the
content that I put out from a
money-making perspective is how can I
operationalize this word right so like
patience for example is when the people
throw out a lot but for me defining
patience was helpful which
is figuring out what to do in the
meantime like that's patience like we're
like I'm not patient it's like no you
just need to figure out what to do in
the meantime that's all like you and I
are being patient on all the Investments
that we made last year while we're
having this podcast like they are
happening we're figuring out what to do
in the meantime so we're being patient
and so it's like patience feels bad when
you're focusing on it but if you're not
focusing on it then patience happens by
default um like sadness for example like
that was really helped me to find figure
out just even defining the word in terms
of operational perspective helped me get
out of those fonks faster which is um
sadness comes from a lack of options a
perceived lack of options which is why
it feels like
hopelessness but if it comes from a
perceived lack of options then it means
that you solve that with knowledge
because it's perceive lack of options
which is an ignorance problem which
means it's solvable which all of a
sudden gives me something to do so then
all of a sudden I do have an option and
then you can get out of the funk and
like anxiety is the is the reverse of
that which is I have many options and I
don't know which one to pick which means
I don't have priorities so like you
solve sadness through knowledge you
solve anxiety through
decisions and so like helping me just
spell those out to myself I'm like ah I
feel anxious okay that means that I have
lots of paths and I need to make a
decision so which one am I going to
decide so I can get out of this bad
feeling if I have sadness great what do
I not know know okay now I have to go
figure that out great I have something
to do and so that like you can I think
these are like mental models
around using emotions to fuel the
behaviors that you
want I didn't want to say a word during
that because I think um what you're
talking about is so I'm as as you're
talking I'm trying to
map
um my fear about people not being able
to make the change um and I the more I
think about it the more I think this
boils down to people feel way that they
don't want to feel and they don't know
how to handle that yeah and you just
without me even thinking to ask you um
you were going through how to deal with
different emotions and by having a plan
by having a procedure which I think
you're going to call operationalizing
yeah um then you know what to do oh when
I encounter sadness then I do this when
I encounter anxiety Then I do this and
so it's a very action oriented plan yeah
um so I want to plant a flag in that and
then I want to follow up with how one
goes about um operationalizing something
okay so I'm going to lay out a thesis
you can push back or
whatever uh people one of the the things
that you and I have both said
historically that I think is maybe the
most powerful thing we will ever say and
everything after that is just what you
do once you get over that uh your life
is an exact reflection of your choices
you are not a victim and even if you are
it does not help you to think that way
you have to break through that and um
one of the intros to this episode that I
considered was that um every day each of
us has to make a choice whether we are
going to play the victim or play the
game and if you're going to play the
game play to win it's the only thing
that makes sense but that is em negative
emotions can be so gnarly that we need
to make it somebody else's fault that to
point all 10 fingers back at us and this
is one of the things to get higher to
impact Theory you're going to be asked
the question along the lines of
something horrible happens to you how
many fingers go outwards and how many
fingers point back at you and the punch
line is if all 10 are not coming right
back at you it's just disempowering it
doesn't mean that bad things don't
happen nothing you can do about a
tornado etc etc but still to realize
that you can make different choices and
get a different outcome but people don't
do that MH a lot because to do that if
you don't have the right frame of
reference MH if you have leaned on the
right traits if you aren't building your
self-esteem around the right thing in
that moment to say that it's your fault
fault fault is just emotionally
devastating and people have not
operationalized their encounter with
negative emotions and therefore they
will do anything they have to do
completely unconsciously to not feel
that way now if that is uh doing drugs
they'll do drugs if that's drinking
masturbation cheating whatever they will
do all of it but it really boils down to
what's your relationship with your
emotion now to push this farther and to
really um make clear what I think I
don't think emotions are objectively
real I don't think that people ought to
believe an emotion I think people think
because they feel it it is the right
reaction to objective truth rather than
a subjective reaction to perception sure
and if you can understand that all of
your emotions are a subjective reaction
to perception that you can take control
of that that you can frame things you
can have a different emotion and now in
that moment instead of doing something
that moves you away from your goals you
can replace it with something that moves
you towards your goals okay so that's my
thesis as as I really think about
boiling it down to what messes people up
it's that if I'm right about that how do
you operationalize anything like what
does that mean because I have a feeling
the thing that makes you phenomenal is
the ability to operational
everything so if I I love this the
conversation just as a side note
um so in my opinion a lot of things even
huge departments practices in business
and medicine and everything come down to
learning and
communication and so let's define terms
so learning is same condition new
Behavior so to the point I felt sad last
time I learned this new thing from this
podcast on impact Theory which is okay
if I feel sad then it means that I don't
see an option which means I need to get
more uh education or knowledge on the
subject so that I can figure out what to
do well at least deciding that I need to
learn more gives me the next step that I
need to do and boom I'm not sad and so
you've been sad before and then it took
you 5 days to get out of it and you're
sad now and it takes you five minutes to
get out of it same condition new
Behavior so you
learned and so if we go one degree move
from that I'm going to circle back to
the original point if we think about
intelligence right um like what is
intelligence as I Define it from an
operational perspective it's rate of
learning right so somebody who learns
really slowly is less intelligent
somebody who learns really quickly is
more intelligent but that means that
intelligence is just a rate it's a
measurement of how quickly you change
your behavior in the same condition and
so if you continue to listen to podcasts
and you're wake up in the same exact
conditions every day and your behavior
does not change it means you learned
nothing which means you are not as smart
as you think you are but it also means
that you can influence and have a direct
influence on your intelligence by
increasing or decreasing the time it
takes you to actually act on the
knowledge you have when the same
condition presents itself and so for me
that's incredibly empowering because
it's like I can be smarter by simply
hearing what this person says getting
the same condition and then immediately
changing my behavior wow that's cool and
so that then like from the fingers
perspective perspective it's like okay
all 10 fingers are on me of how I can
influence my own surroundings and and do
the things that I want to do um so to to
Circle back to um the original question
I think which I probably dovetailed a
little bit um was can you repeat it one
more time how do you operationalize
things what does that mean so okay so
it's breaking down what does this word
mean from a behavior
perspective so it's it's it's it's
really hard like I think the reason that
so many people are confused and they
have a hard time remembering things and
understanding complex topics is because
they have lots of words on their heads
that they have not defined I really mean
like I I truly believe that which is why
every book that I have begins with a
definition of terms just like this is
what an offer is this is what a lead is
right these are these are what this
means right um and until you have that
you're just you're basically making face
noise right like if I say leads and you
perceive that as something different
then we can't actually have a
conversation cuz we're not talking about
the same thing
and so a lot of people have a lot of
words they've heard other people say
that they not along to and some people
are like make sense and they say yes but
when someone says does that makes sense
we have been trained as humans to nod
and say Yes it doesn't mean it makes
sense it means that when we have that
cue that's the behavior we do right
because we know that we get punished
when we say no because then it becomes
oh this big thing and then you know you
dovetail into all these other
conversations and you get punished for
it right and so you learn what's
reinforced and most people say make
sense and then you say which means nod
your head when I say this and you're
like I nod my head great and then you
move on and so I think that's why a lot
of people don't learn because they
actually don't know what the words mean
and so um to operationalize something it
is simply going back down
to when I say I'm confident what does
that mean it's not a feeling it's not a
what other people say about you like
none of that is measurable like how much
like what is measurable it's a
percentage of likelihood that what I say
will happen will happen period that's
what it is now what you'll also find is
that there are a lot of words that mean
the same thing and that doesn't mean
that the the concept wrong it's just the
fact that English or whatever language
you learn usually has a Melting Pot of
like well this is the version of the
Nordic word and this is the version of
the Hindi word and this is the version
of the French word and they're all in
the Lexicon but most of them more or
less mean the same thing and so getting
away from words meaning what the the
dictionary tells us it means and just
say what does it mean to me in terms of
what I can do with it then I think makes
navigating life a lot simpler because
the only thing we can control is our
behavior and so if we Define the words
in terms of what we do about it then the
all become things that we can control
and and can change our lives
with yeah okay that I think is super
important um one of the things that that
changed my life and the easiest way to
explain it is how it manifested in my
marriage was to Define terms and because
what Lis and I were realizing is we're
saying the same words but we don't mean
the same thing totally and that's
creating a lot of confusion now as a
leader in a business this becomes
problematic often because you will say
something that to you is self-evident
exactly what it means people do the it
doesn't make sense yeah nod and um they
do that a lot and So Lisa and I started
defining really simple words like what
when you say you promise what does that
mean when you say something's important
what does that mean yeah and so like in
our marriage if we use the word
important it means stop whatever you're
doing I don't care if you're with the
president of the United States you will
immediately get up leave that and deal
with this thing because it's important
so if it is meaning
but not important then fair enough it's
meaningful but I'm in the middle of
something I'll get to it later doesn't
mean that it's you know not something
that needs to be addressed but it isn't
important cool now we have a shared
lexicon yeah um and I think
that going back to my thesis around
emotions emotions are the subconscious
way of communicating to the conscious
mind so when you think about and this
isn't I mean this is me making things up
this is me connecting dots that
Behavioral Science has made abundantly
clear but I am admittedly connecting
dots but uh Lisa Feldman Barrett wrote a
whole book on this called how emotions
are made so this is not me just shooting
from the hip but I'm I'm putting my own
words to it um the the way that you feel
is the subconscious mind which can
process information uh faster and vaster
as they say so it's a a much larger
number of data points process much
quicker but when you bring it into the
conscious mind you're going to think
either in images or in words most people
probably think primarily in words and so
it really Narrows down your ability to
um deal with a lot of information and
because emotions um are coming from the
lyic brain which we had before we had
the higher level cognition that humans
have that other animals don't have
you're going to be in a situation where
oh snake and you just jump you just have
the emotion and you move yeah um most
people leave things there and so they're
never pulling that into the light to say
ooh Why do I feel so uncomfortable in
this moment what what is it and if they
would take the time to Define what the
discomfort is then they might be able to
operationalize the response that they
should have to this predicated on at
least from my perspective what's your
goal so I feel some kind of way but I
have a goal my goal makes demands which
is something I don't think people think
about very often to achieve your goal
just hey there's physics to it so
certain things will move you towards
your goal and certain things won't so my
goal makes demands but I feel some kind
of way that make me want to move in the
opp opposite direction of the demands
that my goals make so now using your
words I have to operationalize my
encounter with this emotion Define it
Define a response and then actually
adhere to that response in order to move
towards my goals and that the the moment
where you pull the emotion into the
spotlight of your conscious attention
and Define it in a really simple way I
think is where the vast majority of it
get lost so um I do something called
impact the university and I answer some
of the same questions over and over and
over and they often have to do with that
moment somebody does not understand
their own emotions and therefore they
cannot operationalize the next
move have so much to say I will keep it
short so so I want so in reference back
to what I was talking about like with
sadness and anxiety and patience like
these are all well patience is more of a
behavior sadness is a feeling that and
then how do we translate that right um I
want to be clear that I use those terms
because I want to meet people where
they're
at me
personally and if you look at it from
like the the Behavioral Science
perspective you have stimulus and you
have response what happens in the box of
like what this person feels right like
if I hold up a red flash card to a
random person and then I slap them and
then I hold the red flash card again
like all of a sudden some of them might
feel anger some of them might feel fear
like what they feel when they see the
stimulus which I've now paired with a
response right is going to be different
and so I think a lot of effort goes into
people and even people in our world
trying to help people describe their
feelings talk through things blah blah
blah and I I just genuinely think that
it's a waste of time
because not who cares but why does it
matter
because you can do it when you're sad
you can do it when you're angry you can
do it when you're fearful and again to
the point is if 100 people more find out
about the thing that I'm trying to sell
or whatever I'm trying to do then I'll
have a greater percentage likelihood
that I will get this outcome that's it
and I think a lot of people they just
get into this cycle of trying to analyze
their feelings and then they're like oh
it's because I had this trauma when I
was a kid and you know because my dad
didn't hug me enough and like blah blah
blah it's like the because for most
people's explanation is irrelevant cuz I
get like I had a podcast question the
other day that asked um do you feel like
uh uh trauma you know is is something
that creates success later in life among
entrepreneurs blah blah blah and um I
really thought about it and I was like I
think people suffer and some people
become
successful so do I think that suffering
creates success no I think that everyone
suffers and some of them become
successful and then they attribute their
success to make feel worth it to have
gone through that suffering because they
have an outcome but I don't think that
they're related in any way because like
you were successful because you did the
thing how you felt about it is
completely irrelevant and I just think
that there's so much effort that gets
put into that conversation um which is
why I have really contrarian views
around like therapy and things like that
but um I think like if you keep opening
a wound like what does it help
you I don't know like you still didn't
make the calls so like let's let's let's
create an environment where it's more
likely that you that you do the calls
that you need to make and it just it
simplifies the variables that we can
control because no one know like even
even adding the because to things like I
did this because it's like you don't
even know why you're doing what you're
doing and so when people are
like Tom what's your number one reason
for success we're making it up we're
making up our our response I mean it's
what it is like how do I there's aund
things a zillion things I don't know
like is it because my dad didn't hug me
enough is it because my mom like who
knows maybe if he would have been
president still it would have been fine
like it could be completely irrelevant
but we just choose to give this thing
that some percentage of the audience
then says oh that's like me and maybe
then I can be successful too and that's
fine but I think the the the boiling it
down to the absolute Basics or not even
Basics the absolute truths of it are
that there's a stimulus and there's a
response what happens in the Box inside
of your head does not matter if you
respond a certain way you have
learned and if if you continue to see
the same stimulus and you don't respond
the way you want to you have not learned
so you need to
learn I love how direct and simple that
is see a red card get slapped see a red
card duck yeah you learned or block may
even
better you preemptively SLA and if I
have to show the flash card to you seven
10 12 times the person I show it to once
and then Ducks the second time is
smarter more intelligent than the person
have to show it to 10 times before they
react in a different way than standing
there and getting
slapped dude I love that um I
will I will say for all the people that
I because the the people that I have um
maybe I glom on to because of my own hat
here's me making up a reason that I've G
on to because of my own sort of a um The
Journey that I've had to go on thing
I've had to deal with is that I think
where people fall down because you are
right there is no in no uncertain terms
if upon stimulus you do the right thing
for goal attainment you will attain your
goal like that's just how it works uh
but then the question becomes why do the
vast vast vast vast fast majority of
people never reach their goals and I
think it's because they're not able to
either because either will work they're
not able to either stop caring about
what the reason is um or they never take
the time to figure out the reason now
given that I think most people struggle
because they just don't have Clarity
yeah I do think people are going to need
to they might not need to understand why
they feel that way but they're going to
need the very thing that leaves them
uncertain about why they feel that way
is the thing that leaves them uncertain
about what they want to do with their
life or how to achieve what they want to
do okay I really G I'm I love this okay
so the first part of the statement was
uh people are doing the thing and then
it was because and then the second part
of the statement I would pause it that
with the because I would put the reason
they're not doing the thing that they
want to be doing is because they've been
rewarded for doing what they're
currently doing in the past and so all
they're doing is continuing to do they
have learned works and so it's like if
you are continually rewarded because
like there's a reason that you do what
you do right which is that you have been
trained to do it now train is a you
know the environment can train you which
is what most of us switch to over time
you have an external stimuli that wants
to pair a new Behavior with a stimulus
right if you want to teach someone to
duck right you show the red card and
eventually they learn right um but at a
certain point once you do the red card
and then eventually you pair the red
card with a fist then all of a sudden uh
the person gets into fighting right and
then you don't need to pair that anymore
because the environment will
self-reinforce and reward the behavior
of ducking and will punish if they don't
it if they don't duck right and so if
you just think about that as like a
really simplistic microcosm of how we
learn thousands of things like even even
the concept of speech is a million
reinforcement points from the time a
baby is alive right so if you think
about a baby as stimulus response so
they're alive they make noise reward
they're here right attention affection
approval right reward and then they make
no noise and they make noise again
reward make make noise again reward
reward then once they learn to make
noise consistently we then start
rewarding noise that sounds like words
so it's like
like right and they're like whoa It's
like that's we're not going to reward
that one and then all of a sudden they
start approximating the first word and
so all of it is is this continuous
feedback loop of me doing something and
it having an Extinction curve because
nothing happens or me doing something
and I get a reward and so that is the
that is the micro and so you can apply
that to everything that's Happ so like
when you when you start seeing the world
in that way it becomes much simpler to
navigate because you don't need to find
the reason you just say like I do this
because I've been rewarded in the
past cool so so I just need to reward
myself in the present for this new
behavior and like how can I pair this
new Behavior with something good which
is like as a total side note for me a
little trick like when I go to the gym I
always get a little Shake even though
it's a little bit more expensive at the
gym because it's like a little reward
that happens immediately after I lift
and I look forward to that and so it's
just like little things that you can do
to reward yourself to to hijack that
cycle that changes behavior and so it's
like we want to change our Behavior I
think we have to define the terms of
what behavior is to begin with um and
how we did Define learning uh because
that's all it is is pair you know
learning is pairing a stimulus with a
response and so if they want to learn
things that's what they have to do all
right if so many people fail so many
people have a victim mentality what
reward are they getting that reinforces
that so it could be that they because uh
a reinforcer can be both a more of a
positive or less of a negative right
it's like if I remove a slap that's a
reward in its own way um or I add a
positive and so they may be avoiding
punishment in certain ways by staying in
this place because in the past because
everything's extrapolations from the
past in terms of how we see Behavior
because that's our pattern right like we
look back at what like we use our
history to make predictions about what's
going to happen with when I when I try
to turn this door knob to get into the
room I turn it and I turn it because
when I have turned door knobs in the
past it worked and the first time I
encountered a door I was like what do I
do now what I probably did is I looked
at somebody else and when they turned it
the door opened so I know when I see
this thing now if I made that thing
solid and it can't be turned would like
and then I would think what other types
of doors are there and then you'd be
like is there another handle in the
store like and you go to secondary and
tertiary behaviors whereas the most
likely one that's going to work is the
first one you start with and so we have
these behaviors that let's say laying on
the couch and watching Netflix has been
rewarded watching Netflix is a rewarding
experience it's I mean like it's it's
more positive and it avoids negative but
then you get into short-term and
long-term reward and Punishment right
which is why it's harder um which is why
I think it's the meta skill which is on
top of those things which is that I know
that I can delay a short-term for a
long-term payoff um and I think that's
where that's where the big leap has to
happen because if you can train yourself
to know that like I know that if I do
one workout I'm not going to look
different and I know if I do six
workouts I'm still also probably not
going to look different right but if I
do 600 workouts I probably will and as
soon as you have that one first thing
where you had to delay gratification you
got a much bigger payoff you start to
associate the behaviors in while you're
doing it with reward and so the
difference between experts and beginners
is that experts find more ways to reward
themselves while they work on whatever
the thing is and so it's not that they
are more disciplined which is the
finally the full 360 on this is that
experts are not more disciplined than
you they've just found more ways to win
if somebody is starting from scratch
what are the traits skill sets that they
should be cultivating in order to up the
odds of their success uh they should
focus on one thing in general rather
than lots of different things that
you're not sure about because if you're
starting out everything looks like an
opportunity so the correct answer is all
of them are opportunities but all of
them won't work unless you pick one
right so you have to say no to all the
other Mistresses so boom you pick one
and then from there I would say six
figures is sell something to someone
that's it and if you want more detail
sell something to someone so it's one
Avatar one product one channel so you
don't have to figure out how do I create
20 pieces of content across it's like
just pick one channel one media Source
whether it's Facebook Instagram YouTube
you know whatever Twitter consistently
start going on that whether that's cold
outbound whether that's content whether
it's running paid ads whether it's
Affiliates Word of Mouth whatever it is
um and start reaching out to people
there to start selling your stuff and so
if you can just do that consistently and
I use something all what what's the
skill set that's going to make somebody
good and this is six figures still yeah
yeah so what's the skill set in that is
it getting good at the outbound is it
good and good at saying no to the other
stuff like how do we translate that into
a skill set you have to learn how to
advertise which I Define is the process
of making known so how do you let other
people know about the stuff you sell so
you have to advertise there's six ways
to do it I covered five just now so
there's there's six ways you can do it
and then once people engage with
whatever advertisement you have you have
to sell them so advertising is the first
skill selling them is the second skill
and then product would be the third
skill which is the thing that you're
ultimately advertising and selling okay
so that gets us six figures what gets us
seven doing the same thing consistently
so usually once people do it in
beginning they're sporadic they're not
consistent with it just the act of doing
the same thing every day usually gets
people to 100,000 a month which sounds
crazy to probably people listening but
most people who think that's crazy also
haven't done it consistently for an
extended period of time and so I use
something that I call the rule of 100
which is 100 primary actions whether
that's 100 minutes of of content
creation per day 100 reach outs per day
uh $100 of AD spend per day uh just like
you have to pick one of them but 100 per
day and you do that for 100 days and I
promise you'll have you'll be making six
figures if you do that most people won't
yeah I know you know that they will fail
at something what is the most common
thing that you see people fail so you
give them the blueprint your ability to
articulate a blueprint to success is
insane legitimately insane dude when I
so I'm going to make a prediction right
now five years from now in this space
you will be one of the biggest people on
social media 100% guaranteed YouTube
podcast whatever because your advice is
real and I said I I was about to tell
you something and I said I'm going to
say it on camera and I will tell you
right now I judge everybody that comes
on the show by when I'm doing the
research to bring you on which is a way
bigger time investment than the
interview itself did I actually learn
something did I move forward did I enjoy
myself dude it was awesome researching
you was awesome it was good for the
business it was good for the soul good
for the mindset everything so this is
going to be incredible but where do
people fall down because most people
even knowing how articulate you are and
know that people are still going to fail
is crazy and I know that most people are
going to fail so where where do people
really struggle in that
equation I think it's fear mostly um and
I know that's not a skill but I think
it's a character trait and so people are
afraid of Val you know not getting
validated or they're afraid of judgment
that they perceive from other people
that exist or don't exist in their lives
um and so for whatever reason they have
this second voice that criticizes
everything they do that in reality isn't
even there um but is constantly present
it's like the antithesis of whatever the
god figure is but just the negative
voice and so I think that's the thing
that stops most people from doing the
stuff they know they need to do because
if you think about like whether it's
want to get in shape or I want to have a
better marriage or I want to make more
money most people on some level at a
basic level they know what to do and my
proof point of like even making money
right most of us have had a bill that
came up that was unexpected a tax bill a
car breaks down a heal thing whatever it
is and we find a way and so when it's
for someone else people are will use the
actual resourcefulness that they have to
make the money but for whatever reason
they won't use that same resourcefulness
to make it for themselves and so I think
that most people know if they want to
work out uh sorry to to get in shape or
to lose weight whatever they know they
need to eat fewer donuts and move more
in general but they don't right because
they're afraid of getting started or
they don't have the discipline to keep
going which is they can't make the
short-term sacrifice for the long-term
achievement so big picture it's like
there's usually some fear that's
preventing from doing it and then how it
looks from a behavioral standpoint is
they do not make the short-term
sacrifice of discomfort for the
long-term achievement fact independent
of whatever path they're talking about
you guys are going to want to say to the
end I'm going to give you my favorite
Alex quote but now I'm going to give you
one that I actually think pertains to
this so uh you said how to stay poor
assume you're always right yeah and when
I think about people failing it's
because in fact there's another quote
this one I didn't write down but I'm
going to get close
um marketing is just a fancy nine-letter
word for test and once people understand
you're going to fail and you're going to
fail a lot and if you can't deal with
that failure yeah if you think that
failing makes you a failure if you think
that it's a permanent state of being and
you're never going to get better then
you won't do the things you need to do
to ultimately be successful you talk
about consistency yeah but it isn't just
consistency because if you do it wrong
yeah consistently you're still going to
fail right so this is you have to be in
my own language willing to stare nakedly
at your inadequacies and if you can
stare nakedly at your inadequacies then
you can actually get better if you're
running the tests and you're like hey
looking at the data did this work or did
this not work 100% then you can actually
improve but you went through this so in
the beginning of your career and this is
one of the things I find most
interesting about your story is you
failed you actually pulled your now wife
aside and said I'm a sinking ship yeah
uh and if if you wanted to leave I would
completely understand yeah uh how did
you go from that yeah to like there was
something you figured out yeah what what
is that thing you figured
out I think at that point
um the the reality of my situation was
so Bleak that I I didn't conf I honestly
didn't even process the reality of my
situation because the more I thought
about it like the sadder more hopeless I
would feel
and so I focused on the few things that
were under my control which is like I
can do these things and so when I talk
about advertising when I talk about
selling I talk about those things boiled
down to the actual actions because I had
to think of it in that way because it
the only way that it wasn't overwhelming
it's like I just have to make a 100
reach outs or I just have to spend $100
a day and I have to look at the ads and
I have to T turn off the ones that are
bad and do more of the stuff that starts
to work um and and that that was the
process of getting me from kind of like
dark
uh to a better a better outcome but I
mean from that actual point we did the
only thing we knew how to do which was
it market and sell and that was that was
how we got out of that and honestly that
that single skill of being able to
generate leads um independent of the
industry has been like my get out of
jail free card um which has allowed me
to fail over and over and over again
until finally you know I got it right
and even after that one when we were at
the Rock Bottom there I had just you
know nine 90 days earlier gotten a DUI
my mom was in the hospital
um really bad shape uh that's when I had
just lost all the money um which is when
I pulled her aside but then fast forward
six months basically repeated the cycle
again um which is I had we had started
doing these launches where we'd fly out
and and turn gyms around like Bar Rescue
but for
gyms and when we were out there uh all
of a sudden we came back home and we saw
like two of the gyms refunded all of the
transactions because they just told the
people they could just sign up through
them and just do it for half the rate
after after we had already spent the
money for the hotels and the flights and
all the ad spend and every you know a
whole month of work and so basically all
the money that we had saved up in that
like I think we're out of jail free lost
it all again um and only then did we
accidentally um pivot into the licensing
model which ended up becoming the thing
that was like the first very big success
um that we had but like that whole
period of time was 5 years of basically
not having anything um even though on
you know on paper when I had the gyms I
materially looked successful because we
had six locations um but I always just
put all my money back into each you know
each new location so I had very little
actual cash I was asset rich and cash
poor I know the drill right and so but
then when I lost everything after that
because I sold them took the money put
in the new Venture and then lost it I
was like wait I just lost five years
because I had nothing to show for it and
so that's probably what what has created
a lot of the hypothesis I have now
around I didn't lose the 5 years I lost
the assets where were which were not the
most valuable thing that I had earned
over that time it was the skills the
experiences the character traits because
I still had those and then using those
three things I was able to do the next
thing fortunately um yeah yeah I'm
obsessed with learning yeah and it's
interesting because I've had the level
of success that I've had and because I'm
technically middle-aged just crazy to
say uh I used to be the kid I swear to
God uh it is it's really there's a
gravitational Center in my brain that
wants me to think that I have crossed
some line yeah and that it's about
looking backwards and it's really
dangerous like you have to be looking
forward I mean God willing I've got you
know another 40 plus years of life left
and every time that I get in that trap
it's I just re-anchor around W I'm still
learning like all this stuff I'm 46 but
I've learned so much I failed so
and
then
asy to keep pushing to keep building
because I have to your earliest point
about what makes you successful it's the
that is literally my cryptonite is I
have a very hard time accepting the fact
that I can do anything I want with my
life but not everything yeah and that I
find deeply distressing but like on a
level that borders on mental illness
yeah
and by focusing cutting out the other
stuff and recognizing okay I've
reinvented myself again yeah but a lot
of that knowledge is going to transfer
it's going to be useful as I push
forward but getting obsessed with
learning like that would be the gift if
I could give to people and say okay you
you want to be successful I get it
everybody wants it right now but if you
can stack these skills like then if
you've got the skill set and the
methodology that you know you and others
can really lay out incredibly well it's
like now you can do something but if you
have the methodology but not the skills
or you don't have the mindset and so
you're broken by the failure or you
don't have the methodology if you're
missing any one of those then you end up
in a death spiral yeah it's interesting
what you're saying with the learning
thing because um I think a lot of people
like the early because I I also I have
like I feel like two parts of the
audiences that like follow my stuff I've
got the business owners who are trying
to scale their business Etc and then
I've got all the people who want to
start a business and usually they're a
little bit younger and whatnot and I
think there's a a misnomer around like
education and so a lot of them I don't
know how explicit I can be but like they
mentally masturbate so watching lots and
lots of videos they you know want the
PumpUp speeches they buy the tickets to
the
things and so they just learn and I
think that they think that exposure to
information is learning and I don't
think that's true or at least it hasn't
been for me so definitely not sure so
you know cuz I I'm sure you get asked
all the time like what are the books
that you know transform your life and
I've had a handful of books that have
been useful to me but I would say 99% of
the things that I've learned I've
learned they're doing and so when I do
the original rule of 100 and whatnot
it's because I think it's the most
effective way to learn which is you
force yourself on the one controllable
that you have which is the activities
that you can take and then it goes with
the underlying assumption that you go
off feedback and you're like well that
opening message did not work yeah right
and then I think most people have a
dramatic underestimation of how much
volume it takes to be successful
independent of the thing right they're
like okay I should go on five dates and
find the girl I'm going to marry it's
like what if it was 500 to find the
right girl you're going to marry or I
want to you know start this this new
Channel I want to I want to become an
influencer whatever it is and they start
doing you know one post a day for four
weeks and they're like why am I not
famous yet and they find I mean real
right true and they find out that like
you know we ended up doing 400 episodes
before we made it to the top 10 on the
podcast thing and now we start doing you
know 100 plus pieces of content a week
and it's just this volume game that you
get the the skill from the volume the
feedback from the volume and you there's
all these like little things I'm sure
it's like from the exercise role because
you come from that um like when you
squat the first time you squat you're
you're orienting yourself to your
environment you're barely actually
squatting you're just looking like you
have a bar on your back but you learn so
much between that first rep in your
10,000 rep of squats and so I think for
most people it's like if we can if I my
goal like with the learning is like if I
can just decrease the action threshold
for people to begin and be okay with the
fact that they're going to suck and it
is okay to suck it is you should expect
to suck and it would be unreasonable for
you to be good if you haven't done it
before and so it's like are you asking
the universe to be unreasonable for you
by expecting to be good on your first
try and I think that's where a lot of
people it's the expectation that
destroys their ability to be successful
because they expect to win on the first
shot and no one does do you worry at all
about people wanting to be on camera
right from the jump because that puts an
expectation to be good that oh yeah
that's rough
um I think it's so much e like if we're
so so many so many feelings about this
um so you've got you've got this whole
Space right and you look at like if
you're like I want to be a business
influencer right well it's like well you
look at the guys who actually the top of
the business game and virtually everyone
you Andy Ed Gary all those guys have
killed it in business and most of them
even Gary had gone to 60 million a year
before he made his first content and so
I think the issue is that people look at
that and say I should make content like
them when you don't have you can't
answer the underlying question which is
why should I listen to you which is
always in the back of every audience's
mind in my opinion at least that's what
I think like when someone's like a
relationship expert and I find out
they've been divorced three times I'm
like you know maybe not right I mean and
as terrible as it is they might be
giving amazing advice but it doesn't
pass the first filter which is if I'm
going to take military strategy from
someone I'd rather have a general that
has a winning record even if the other
guy Napoleon said I'd rather have lucky
generals so even if you had two that
were even he'd rather have the lucky one
and so to the same degree I think people
use that filter because it actually
takes less effort to learn from someone
that you trust and so it's like if
you've got the the basement teacher
that's telling you to dollar cost
average into the S&P and you've got
Warren Buffett who's telling people to
dollar cost average in the S&P they
don't want to listen to the teacher even
if the teacher is better objectively
from a constant standpoint because they
just don't know if they should trust
them so you have to have two filters I'm
hearing the thing should I trust the
thing with Warren you can just plug into
whatever he's saying and just take it as
truth which takes less effort and so I
think most people don't get that point
and so I think you should make content
but the if you're or you should
advertise the stuff that you sell let
people know about what you're doing um
but it should be about the true
expertise that you have which is often
times just talking about the stuff
you're doing rather than saying you
should be doing this this is what I am
doing hope you find it interesting hope
you find it valuable and I think that's
a big Dynamic which versus like how to
it's how I um just that little shift and
I think a lot of people would get much
bigger better audiences and actually
make more money from the content that
they're making because everyone else is
like why should I listen to you yeah
yeah with content like I'm I'm open
anybody that wants to make it make it
people will watch it if it's adding
value hopefully they don't do what you
were describing earlier which I'll call
spiritual entertainment where they're
just learning learning learning watching
watching watching getting motivated
getting inspired they're not doing
anything with it but my big concern with
people creating content is that they
will trap themselves because they're
afraid to suck like when I got on camera
I was like wow I'm really rolling the
dice now because my life has taught me
one immutable truth I'm going to fail a
lot and there's nothing that tells me
that that period in my life is over like
and and it was never interesting to me
to like ride into the sunset on oh I
sold Quest so I sold Quest and then like
Babe Ruth I said I'm going to
build the next Disney right yeah but I
went on camera and said look honestly
the odds are stacked against me the odds
that I fail are way higher than I that I
succeed right and so going into that I
did not want to back myself into a
corner where I was afraid to try things
I was afraid to step into an area where
I wasn't good because it's the only way
that I know to get better right which I
call the physics of progress I call it
the physics for a reason because I think
it is truly the only way to improve is
basically the scientific method you come
up with an informed hypothesis come up
with a test that lets you actually try
that out you test it you get results you
stare nakedly at those results which
will sting a little because it almost
certainly did not work as well as you
hoped yeah you will then get a little
bit wiser you will reformulate a
hypothesis you will retest and you just
that's the loop right and you just go go
go and you see what works and you see
what doesn't but people are so
interested in looking cool yeah that the
content becomes the Trap that stops them
from actually getting good it's the
posturing it's the external validation
that they need to feel like the success
they're not having in reality can be
made up for with likes and comments and
perceive
success talk to me about the so you said
that you wanted to Vanquish your dad
yeah so this to me is tied to that idea
of like you you need something that
propels you you need something that
pushes you to go through all of
this but also trying letting your dad
control your actions is probably not the
best move yeah so like how was it useful
and then is there getting to the other
side of that yeah so um and you know to
be clear dad um the I would say that the
the vanquishing thing is something that
I was able to kind of recognize in
retrospect which was it was all about
beating my dad earlier on so and a lot
of that was because I felt like a lot of
the respect was withheld from me earlier
on and it was always like a moving
Target which is you know you need to be
this you need to be that you have to be
in shape you have to date Haw rolls you
have to be top your class you have to
play all the Varsity Sports like all
those things right be editor-in chief of
the newspaper be editor-in chief of the
of the literary magazine all those
things at the same time and still if I
got something wrong on a test it was
like what you get wrong you know rather
than this is cool I'm not got 99 right
yeah I'm not booing about it is what it
is that's made me who I am and I'm
grateful for it um but that was kind of
the the earlier part was I wanted to win
at the game that had been set up for me
and you know first it was make 100,000 a
year and then it was make uh the same as
amount as my dad and then it was make
more than my dad and then it was make
more than my dad had ever made in his
entire life and then once that happened
I looked around and I was like I think
I've been playing his game and not my
game and so I wasn't really setting any
rules I was just playing with the rules
that were given to me and so and kind of
think like is this even the game I want
to play and so that you know that took
me you know a little bit of time to
process um and I think that It
ultimately to your question I think it
did serve me a lot um and I don't know
how much of these reinforced behaviors
that I learned during that period of
time still benefit me today but they're
not fueled by the same thing so I still
have these habits of how I work and and
you know being dedicated towards goals
Etc that I think we're born of that um
but no longer are fueled from that now
so how do we effectively take control of
the process of rewarding and punishing
ourselves yeah to keep us on track
towards our goals I think being
cognizant of it at at at the absolute
base layer you start to see the world
through very different lens and you're
like okay that was punishing
huh like that was rewarding great I'll
do more of that but then you start to
think you're like why do I do that you
really start thinking about you're like
well because I it sometimes it's so
funny like I'll have um because we you
know we we we invest in buying products
and whatnot and so I had two different
products that were in the same category
because I like the category that I was
looking at and one of the products had a
better result like it had a better
better end outcome when when the
customer uses it and the market leader
and this is who they were trying to
disrupt um had a slightly inferior
result um but it delivered the result
almost instantly and the other one took
like five minutes and this one was like
5 seconds and the other one was
objectively better like even like SC
like science had had all the stats and
everything like it was objectively
better and they wanted me to invest in
this company and um they're like we have
a better product I was like no you have
a better result you have a better
product the reason these guys are still
number one is because uh latency matters
more than intensity when it comes to ro
the reason that a little icon on your
phone is cuz it's immediate right and
then it goes away right like you have
this immediate feedback loop whereas um
you I don't know if you've heard this
okay so um sorry I I love this stuff so
if you're trying to train a dog right
they uh there's this I wish I could I'll
maybe send it after the show but like a
graph that shows how you can train a dog
to sit or like a treat and so if you
tell the dog the command and then you
wait and you immediately reward it it
learns faster if you wait 30 seconds it
learns you know it takes more tries to
get it to
learn after a minute the dog's
untrainable a
minute and so it doesn't know why it's
being rewarded now the thing is is it's
not that you aren't training the dog
because whenever you have some sort of
reward you're training it you're just
not training what you think you are so
you have to look at what happened
immediately before you gave the reward
which happened a minute later right and
so we think because it's like it's sat
I'm going to wait a minute and then give
it the cookie but I'm not reinforcing
the sitting I'm reinforcing the thing
they did right before they got the
cookie and so as a as a as a as a zoom
back out here um when we're thinking
about like and the reason I brought up
these two products was that the the the
the original product the one that was
the the market leader was better because
it gave even a smaller benefit but it
gave it immediately and so people will
probably it seems silly but when you
really try and be honest with yourself
like why do I why do I go to this gym
instead of that gym because I have a
bunch of gym memberships I'm like why do
I CU I like to think about this not
surprised by that right I'm like why do
I go to this place I'm like cuz the
other place has better equipment and I'm
like the person at the front always says
hi when I walk
in immediate reinforcement for walking
in the door and I was like I think
that's what it
is I like it like when I come in they
always say hi and I have like a
two-minute conversation and like I look
forward to that I drive 10 minutes
further for that I'm like how silly but
when I think about it when I'm really
honest with myself and so to go back to
the person who's on the couch it's
sometimes s the rewards are minuscule
and then when you name them they feel a
little bit less powerful but it also
means that you can say how can I make
another minuscule reward in another
direction that gets me moving towards my
long-term goal and then I can Kickstart
that cycle where I start to learn like a
master does because Masters enjoy love
the process it's like easy for a master
to say because you're good at it
easy for you to say right like when
you're I'm right like I write my 19th
draft of the book I've now written a
decent amount you know what I mean like
I've I've spent a long time writing and
so I the Act of writing itself is
rewarding for me like you must work so
hard which I do but it's not that I'm
willpower my way the whole way through
not always of course there's times where
it's like not the most fun but big
picture the process is rewarding because
I've gotten good enough that it is
rewarding and so um the more ways you
measure the more ways you can win which
is like one of our one of our little
monikers and so it's like how many
different ways can we measure that we
can make progress on these little things
and have wins as quickly as possible in
the direction you're trying to go and
then start the loop okay so um to say
that really succinctly to make sure I
understand no no no the exploration was
amazing I just want to make sure that I
understand it um I think we've covered
the reward part so I'm going to do
something measurable and see my growth
and that starts a positive reinforcement
Loop that's going to send me down the
right pa okay so that makes all the
sense in the world uh proximity the rate
at which you get the reward is really
going to matter that's really
interesting from a product perspective
you're the first person I've ever heard
talk about that super interesting but
now how do I punish myself do I like I'm
a big believer that you need to punish
yourself but when I say that sentence
out loud I know what people hear and it
feels icky and weird um but it's been
incredibly powerful for me so do you
believe in the power of self-punishment
and if you do how far do we take it so
um I will just just for sake of everyone
I will just State this as my opinion and
we'll just leave it at
that so you have praise and you have
punishment or you can have rewarding of
punishment whatever you want to call
it punishment is more effective to
change behavior in the short term like
if I hold a gun to somebody's head I can
immediately change Behavior right reward
is more powerful over the long
term and so like if you look at an
environment so we think we talk a lot
about this adquisition ncom because it's
kind of part of our mission internally
is to create a culture of reward non
punishment uh and the way that we think
about this is if you have like let's say
Goldman Sachs or Mackenzie some of these
very big organizations that attract some
of the best and brightest and are
renowned for having relatively terrible
or punishing cultures right they work
people to death and blah blah blah so
what happens is if you if you put an
animal in a cage and uh they can't
escape then they will revert to law of
least effort so they will do as little
as they can to not get punished and so
then when you're in a punishing
environment you all you have to do to
get them to do more is you just raise
the bar for what they have to love least
effort do to not get punished and so in
an environment of high performers that
gets everyone to raise the bar but then
quickly burn out now that model works if
you have an endless supply of bodies but
if you are the person who is being
burned out then that works for two years
or whatever Praise on the other hand or
reward can unlock in my opinion
discretionary effort so the effort
beyond the law of least effort required
to keep your job and not get punished
and so the issue is that the people who
are the most able are the ones who are
able to work the least and still keep
their
jobs but they're also the ones who you
get the absolute most upside on if they
work because they want to not because
they have to and so that is kind of our
our our thesis of how we try and build
companies at acquisition. and we're not
perfect we you know believe me there are
plenty of times when want to choose
someone head off but we really try I
know my teams here nodding but like we
really put serious effort into saying
like it so let's say like I find out the
dog shits on the on the carpet when I
get home I hit it it doesn't learn all
I'm doing is hitting a dog like if it
was less than if it was within 60
seconds from the time that it happened
it's not going to learn and so like if
you know that and then you hit the dog
anyways what does that make
you
interesting right and so um now
obviously if we're like punishing
ourselves and whatnot um that might be
somewhat different I'm talking about how
we relate to others um
but you can either avoid punishment or
you can seek reward and I think both of
them are powerful uh motivators avoiding
punishment is powerful more powerful in
the short term to change Behavior it's
faster uh reward is more powerful in the
long term to keep Behavior going because
eventually you uh like kind of like onic
adaptation you get used to a punishment
and then it no longer works so you have
to have you have to increase the variety
and intensity of punishments in order
for it to continue to be effective do
you punish
yourself honestly not a
ton I have super high
standards but I don't know if I punish
myself I don't know if I'm like Alex
you're a piece of I
don't not really cuz I you know Lea and
I are kind of sit on opposite sides of
the like I'm like some people have like
a base of anxiety that they like work
through I don't come from that side I
come from probably like a base of
laziness like and just you know like and
that's why I have have all these things
to get myself to do to do stuff um but
punishment just like it's also just
never been effective for me like when I
get punished I I want to just figure out
how to avoid punishment not do what they
want me to do right like when you when
you use punishment to like train kid you
get them to sneak out more right um not
like they just find other ways to get
out of the house quietly they don't
necessarily change their behavior but if
you reward them for staying then they
never want to leave that kind of idea
the reason people leave when they're
younger is because there's more reward
outside of the house than inside the
house and so if you want to fix in the
long term make the reward for being home
more than leaving
home it's interesting so uh this is
probably one where defining the term
would be very meaningful um um I I
personally use what I call
self-punishment now to me
self-punishment is to force myself to
acknowledge that I said I was going to
do something that I did not do that's
normally where this will come from
interesting I would call that stating
the facts interesting I would call that
punishing so and this this is why it's
important so I understand why people
always react so negatively when I say
that you you are missing out on an
incredibly powerful Tool uh if you don't
punish yourself now just to acknowledge
and you've said this as well we we are
all speaking from this is what works
with me um so this is the experience
that I've had the comment section
exactly uh and there so getting out of
bed in 10 minutes or less is I I
struggle with it every day in my life
it's it's hysterical to me that even now
all these years later I still have to be
like you said you'd get out I stay in
bed for like 45 minutes on my phone I
can't allow myself immediately as soon
as I wake up well if I'm doing something
in bed I I suppose I should change it to
working um that I 10 minutes to be
productive is probably the right way to
think about it um and because there are
times where there's something that I can
do in bed like this morning when I could
start researching you the second I wake
up then then I would still call that a
win but if I don't do the thing that I
said I was going to do then I force
myself to to acknowledge to myself with
no I don't let myself run so I don't let
myself be distracted I'm just like you
said you were going to do something you
did not do this thing and therefore you
should not feel good about the behaviors
you enacted in this moment and then I
will often confess to my wife or my
employees or my community so that I am
holding myself accountable and now I'm
sitting in something that I do not like
the way that it feels I'm not letting
myself run and so then I'm like I don't
want to be back here yeah so next time
I'm going to take a different set of
behaviors that has been transformative
for me so interesting and that not using
that for me would be to miss out on a
huge motivational I love this and I want
to draw similarities for the audience
cuz and I think I think this is why I
think this stuff is kind of interesting
for anybody who's listening is like
is there are different ways this is why
like there there are only a few things
you need to do to win and the way you do
it is entirely up to you uh which is why
I love boiling things down to just like
what are the few the few things that
everything has in common and everything
else is preference but with what you
just said I think I have like the first
thing we do is we State the facts is
that I said that I would wake up within
and do something within 10 minutes
observation that did not
happen then comes the third step which
is that you this is me putting words is
that you label that as bad and then
maybe label yourself as bad depending on
you know that I don't do right yeah for
the for the audience just to be clear um
okay I need to not see you so one so if
if one wakes you know doesn't wake up in
10 minutes and then States the facts I
did not do what I said I was going to do
um then uh labels the the thing as not
good and then says I am also not good
then that becomes trouble now one degree
before that is just labeling the
behavior is not good or not ideal for
the outcome that I want um but I'm not
sure how much it matters to feel bad
about it again with the behavior box of
like stimulus response because once you
feel bad about it right and then it's
like well what what do we do to increase
the likelihood that next time it increas
now cuz we could feel amazing about it
we can feel terrible about it we can
feel neutral about it but all that will
matter is what Behavior we change in
order to increase the likelihood that we
do what we want next time at least as as
as I see it and I found that I put for
me a lot of energy into trying to
understand things trying to label things
as good or bad trying to label myself as
good or bad as a consequence um and the
only part that mattered for me to
actually get what I wanted was the last
step which is what am I going to do
about it and I can also just just skip
these sorry I can just skip these other
three steps and just go straight from I
always said I was going to do this thing
observation I did not do it what is the
change in my behavior or my environment
that I'm going to do next time to
increase the likelihood that I do it and
then even with the binary thing that we
were talking about earlier with rules
I'm actually more of like a weighing
system of okay over the last 60 days I
got up within the first 10 minutes 60%
of the time okay next 60 days if I can
do 70% of the time
I am making progress and so rather like
because most people will fall short of
perfection and so I feel like it ends up
setting up a an inevitability of failure
if we Define it as binary just my own
perspective so how do you then deal with
people that are not hitting a standard
whether it's you or somebody else I have
found in business if you let people get
away with low standards uh not only will
it devastate their performance it will
begin to drag down the company and and
it really matters totally so um do you
stick to only rewards do you call it out
like what are you doing yeah yeah so we
AB so we State the facts and then we say
what we're going to do about it and then
if someone consistently cannot do
because at some level there's always
there's always a chunk down skills
someone doesn't have right so if I say
hey can you send an email to so and so
we have assumption that they have a
stack of skills before that I assume
that they can read I assume they can
write I assume they can use a computer I
assume they have from an envir
environmental perspective they have
access to Internet they know how to use
a processor like they know how to open
up an internet BR like I know we're this
sounds silly but we make these
assumptions but for some people they're
missing one of those and so they have
all this failure because they're just
missing one link on that chain and so
trying to identify what is the skill
deficit and then is it a skill that I'm
willing to invest time into teaching
somebody and so we want somebody who
have as many base skills as possible
that apply to many scenarios so like if
two people go through the same training
program right and one person gets the
outcome and the other person doesn't
it's usually because the training
program doesn't account for every single
skill that is required to get the
outcome there are certain assumptions
that come in like if someone reads my
book I assume that they can speak
English I mean I'm saying as simple as
that sounds right but there's a hundred
other skills and the people who are
successful faster just have more of
those skills stacked up so that when
they get the right information they can
immediately use it and some people still
need to go back and learn how to wake up
on time and like have someone say no and
not cry right like these are these are
other skills and so um in the
environment of work how do we address
somebody who is not performing we State
the facts we recommend a course of
action that can help increase the
likelihood that they do it again in the
future and if that doesn't happen then
we say like this is what will happen as
a consequence neutral of you being good
or bad or this situation be good or bad
it's just these are the standards that
we will accept and you are beneath those
standards based on these facts that's it
like if you showed up to work late okay
just to be clear you understand that our
expectation is that you show up on time
yes I understand great great you also
understand that that what you did was
not to that expectation cool so let's do
this do you have an alarm on your phone
yes do you use it no do you know how to
set an alarm on your phone yes great so
why don't we do this from here on out
let's set two alarms 5 minutes apart at
this time that'll give you ample time to
get up clean your face whatever and then
get on camera does that work yes and
then we measure and if it doesn't happen
again if it does then it's like why did
that because then you get into the base
skill do I adhere to Authority like can
I listen to instructions like those are
skills and if someone nods their head
and then doesn't do that then they don't
have that skill and then the question is
whether am I'm am I willing to take the
time to invest in teaching someone this
skill when the opportunity cost of that
time could be allocated to somebody else
who might already have that skill or
Suite of skills that's how we think
about it so one of the things that is a
recurring theme is the idea of extending
the time to
extinguish what if we we were going to
operationalize that what what do we do
with people and um if I were going to
personify the the length to extinguish
I'll give a historical example and then
I'll give a a more modern so
historically uh Winston Church Hill dude
I don't know if you've read much about
him
unbelievable uh what that guy was able
to pull off and how long he was able to
delay gratification and then a more
modern example would be David Goggins
yeah so um how do we operationalize it
what do you take from those guys I think
it's the the the Masters thesis of those
guys are Masters at whatever the thing
is and so they find ways to reward
themselves in the meantime and so we
only think that they have Supreme Ultra
discipline willpower because we are
measuring what we can see as the outcome
of running a race you know 26 miles or
whatever it is but if they are rewarding
themselves throughout the entire process
then if anything the end of the race
might be uh a removing of a reward and
might be actually anticlimactic which is
what happens with most athletes after
they compete in the Olympics or they win
the championship or lose the
championship um the buildup is where
they have all the reinforcement and then
when that thing actually happens then
they have to get right back on the the
horse of where they get their reward
from which is the work to get there
because they are good enough at it that
they can win in more ways and so just
the more you know about something the
better you are at it the better you are
at it the more you can win the more you
can win the more you want to do it how
much of that do you think is identity
like when I look at somebody like um a
Churchill or a Goggins it that feels to
me like a game of who am I or who do I
want to be one of my favorite Churchill
quotes um is well so quotes failures the
ability to go from uh sorry success is
ability to go from failure to failure
without a loss of enthusiasm speaks
directly to this but one thing that I
got reading his biography is uh he said
to his mother when he was really young
that uh this is a paraphrase not exact
quote but I yearn for a reputation for
physical courage um more than anything I
mean it was and and this is a guy that's
for people that don't know his story
that sent himself into war zones
multiple times in his life when he
absolutely did not need to do that
including World War I when he was like
he was basically the equivalent the
British equivalent of a senator yeah now
imagine you have an active senator who
felt like he had let people down and so
he said send me to the front lines and
they're like whoa why would we do that
like you do not need to go to the front
lines even if you want to engage with
the war you certainly don't need to go
to the front lines and he said nope I
want to be literally where the bombs are
falling in the dirt with the men um and
that was somebody who had such a strong
internal Compass of this is who I want
to be
with just felt like I'm loser he staring
at in the mirror the accountability
mirror doesn't like who he sees decides
he's going to change and become a
different person and I'm sure you've
seen the clips of him screaming you
don't know me you don't know who I am um
that's an identity play mhm
so how do you see that is is extending
the time to extinguish purely an an and
identity play or is there something else
going on so I
think I think the wording matters um but
if you uh want to extend how long you
continue to do something without seeing
the result of you're doing
uh you need to find a way to be rewarded
in the meantime like that's that's what
it is like that in my opinion and so
whether we call it Identity or we call
it a skill or we call it a behavior we
call it a character trait so it's saying
like with the the the many words that
ultimately mean like what is the
percentage likelihood that this Behavior
occurs um that is really all I would
look at and is it as simple as I I was
today who I said I was like how do we
make that I mean Not To Beat to Death
the idea of operationalized but when I
think about what I'm doing when I reward
and punish myself is I am trying to feel
the way I want to feel or not or make
sure that I'm feeling discomfort so that
I will move away from that behavior
yeah so what is it or how do we Leverage
identity to feel the thing that we want
to feel like is it just words in your
head like how do you play that g
identity is really internal
culture so if you think if you Define
culture as uh a set of rules of
behavior in a within an organization
identity is just the rules of behavior
within an
individual and so I think to your point
you have your rules of behavior um that
occur I would say that my rules of
behavior even though I hate rules as a
concept um when I do these things like
when I see this this happens right I do
have the these these behaviors that have
been cued that I have learned um see now
we have all these words that we've
defined so now we can at least everybody
can agree on what we're talking about
which is why it means a lot to me um but
yeah I just I think identity is just a
big stack of Behavioral cues that we've
said because people change over time and
so it's really just like a mental
construct of this is how I
behave like what is an identity it is
like and even if you want to say like I
know this person what it really means is
that I have a high predictive score on
what this person will do or say as a
result of whatever I do or
say and so if that's the conversation
that I'm having with someone it's like I
know him really well oh he'll love that
because I have a good predictive score
that when this happens he will do this
now somebody who's all over the place or
super erratic right then or do they have
a unformed Identity or do I just not
know enough about them
maybe and so I it just that has just
been my lipus test and may maybe it
seems like oversimplification but um for
me it has been been incredibly fruitful
to just cuz then for me it takes a lot
of the the Superstition a lot of the
magic a lot of the black box of feelings
and emotions and and identity out and
it's just Alex is a series of behaviors
that's who I am that I that have been
trained Into Me by my environment and
that I have tried to learn
myself and I will change in the future
because if I get better then it means I
can't be the same person I am today
which means some of the things that I
have learned now I will unlearn and
learn new behaviors when I see a
different stimulus or the same sorry
when I see the same stimul
this is so interesting so um the way
that I have always approached this is I
I am trying to get people to change
their frame of
reference frame of reference speaking of
things that need to be defined frame of
reference to me are your beliefs and
values oh okay and see I didn't even
think that's what you meant I thought I
totally thought you meant something
different so this why we yes exactly
this is why you define things okay so um
and and I will say all of this in what I
just heard you say is that where I'm
coming at things is from beliefs and
values where you're coming at things is
from behaviors and traits it's very
interesting very interesting like I am
going to think about this so much moving
forward uh as to one is it is beliefs
and values just particular to me and
that is I try to help people make change
in their life I'm wasting all my
time because this is just the thing that
resonates with me or is there something
I'm getting to the thing that's
underneath your behaviors and traits and
that people don't address this they'll
never get to that or I'm just wasting my
time you were going to say something I
think it's well value so if we were to
like when it's like I have these values
a value is just a behavioral short code
when this happens I do this someone who
is loyal when he's out and his wife
isn't there hot girl comes up and says
hey want to get a drink value it means
set of behaviors I say no or I say I'm
married or no thank you whatever and so
values are skills because you can train
them
interesting values are skills I would
say the adherence to a value is a skill
that you can train but if you have the
wrong value that you adhere to you're
going to be in trouble here's why I
start with beliefs and values I think so
much of the human animal is invisible to
the person and that if they they'll
never be able to control their behaviors
if they don't control the emotions that
drive the behaviors and I think emotions
are an echo of your beliefs and values
and I can change somebody's emot like
their cognitive um the way that they
frame something cognitively will drive
their biological response to that moment
which is insane so the quote nothing is
either good or bad but thinking makes it
so the death of your mother is not good
or bad totally thinking it's bad makes
it bad yeah now that is uh you and I
think come at that from very different
angles totally and so not a bad way I
think it's great no no no dude this is
so intriguing to me one because all I
care
is are youting thec that you want yes or
and if you are aming and so you're
giving me new tools news to about this
um okay so just a quick breakdown of of
frame of reference so my hypothesis is
that everybody's life is entirely
controlled by their frame of reference
okay the frame of reference the best
analogy would be to say that your frame
of reference is a pair of glasses that
you put on that distort the living
out of the world
that none of us have the um option of
taking the glasses off taking the
glasses off would be to exist outside of
your biology nobody's going to be able
to do that so you see the world in a
hyper distorted way now all of us over a
lifetime of reward
punishment um oh God what' you call it
approval like there's all kinds of
things that Happ toal attention
affection approval okay so all of us are
getting that constantly from the time
that we were born until now and we
choose who to value that from and you've
talked about your parents and all that
like so anyway you can choose but you
most people never become consciously
aware of what's happening and so their
the Distortion of their lens happens
slowly over time in ways that they
simply recognize mistakenly as objective
truth so they think they see the world
as it is not through the Warped lenses
of their frame of reference now once you
realize that you can change the way the
lenses work the world now you can start
to shape your lenses based on um action
outcome I did a thing and it had this
outcome and so it all becomes about your
ability to predict the outcome of your
actions which is and we will get into
sort of the physics of making money but
um to me that's all about the ability to
predict like what test to run and how to
interpret the test and all that so It
ultimately boils down to your frame of
reference and if you don't get your
frame of reference right the world will
be so warped you will not be able to
predict the outcome of your behaviors
most people end up in the mistaken Loop
of my emotions are the the correct which
one needs to Define and they don't my
emotions are the correct response to
this stimulus even though it does not
lead me towards my goals and they spend
their whole life spiraling in emotion
and that's why they're never able to get
out of it and and begin to polish the
lens in a way that actually gives them
um something useful and what you're
saying is none of that matters
all that matters is whether they do the
thing that's going to yield the outcome
or not I think it it just I think it
just saves a lot of time and a lot of
because when we try to name these
emotions like you know what am I feeling
I'm kind of it's like this whole
conversation not this but like that self
conversation it's like what does that
accomplish until you then decide to do
something in the real world like nothing
matters and from a from an outcome
perspective but I'll just share
something with the audience because I
have a my my first really big viral
video was me just talking about like
what how you scale companies and I first
thing I talk about scaling the
entrepreneur um I have four frames that
I go through in the in the video and I
used to believe that uh entrepreneurers
get limited by skills with this is this
is what I used to believe which is
skills uh character traits and beliefs
you can reboot your life your health
even your career anything you want all
you need is discipline I can teach you
the tactics that I learned while growing
a billion- Dollar business that will
allow you to see your goals through
whether you want better health stronger
relationships and more successful career
career any of that is possible with the
mindset and business programs in Impact
Theory University join the thousands of
students who have already accomplish
amazing things tap now for a free trial
and get started
today those are that's what I used to
say I now believe that character traits
are another way of saying when this
happens they do this which is trainable
which makes it a skill and then beliefs
are when they are presented with this
information they then make this decision
which is yet again another thing that
can be trained because if you can learn
it then it's a skill which means it just
comes down as I see the world it just
comes down to skills and just because
it's harder to Define uh Charisma
because it might be 20 things because we
have a term that buckets 50 behaviors or
whatever it is just because it's hard to
describe doesn't make it not a
scale and that's why like the soft stuff
in business like we probably agree that
the Soft Stuff matters a ton in building
a big company
culture right McKenzie did a big study
on this Leela sites said a lot more than
I do because she's on the people side um
but uh in a normal business two out of
three strategies fail like new
initiatives fail in businesses where
they have the soft stuff down one out of
three strategies fail so two out of
three succeed so you get twice the
percentage likelihood of success on big
strategic initiatives ever guess
why why is Bey is beyond me I that was
just that was the yeah I don't get into
because yeah I don't get into because is
right this is that yeah Dr cashew is my
my closest friend like a brother he
jokes about he he obsesses about why
things work I just care that it
works um and so um anyways to to Circle
back on this is that people consider
like leadership to be like a fooo or
like communication skills is like soft
stuff right sales metric you know like
we have all these metric driven things
versus this and it's just because it's
harder to measure doesn't make it less
important and that was that was a big
realization for me is that it was just
because it was harder for me to measure
but it doesn't make it less important
and so these skills that we're talking
about um we try to find ways to measure
them by saying when I'm when somebody
walks like I'll give you an example with
our video team um we realize that we
have much better direct camera work for
our content if because we were we were
like man we have this one guy on our
team he's so good to film with and some
of the other guys are just like not as
good I'm not like as amped about it like
why is that so we could control the
things that we're were going to walk
into the into the video session with
like okay am I did I sleep well did I
you know all that stuff if that's
controlled and I still change then it
means there's something in the
environment and so we then observed
actually to be fair we asked the the
Superstar to observe what are the things
you're doing and so we notice that while
he's while he's filming he's like yeah
he's like yes this is awesome and so we
said write that down and then what else
did you do it's like oh I uh I write
down questions while you're talking
while I'm so he had to be able to
multitask so he had to Bob his head
while we're talking and write down
follow-up questions for what we were
saying and so then all of a sudden it
became this continuous flow of
Consciousness with literally constant
reinforcement while we were filming
visually and so then we gave that sop to
the other people on the team and all of
a sudden filming with them was way
better and so people like he's just got
a great Vibe it just means that we don't
know how to describe all the little
behaviors that that person does and and
say when I start talking Nodge your
head real right and and when when
there's something that you don't
understand write it down and ask me
because I means somebody else doesn't
understand it too and it makes for great
content oh right and so we had this big
list and then now we
operationalized what it's like or what
what you what behaviors you have to do
to become somebody who's good behind the
camera which means it's a skill that can
be learned like Charisma like patience
like confidence like whatever and so um
boiling it down that way has just
demystified the world for me and just
made it a lot easier to navigate because
I don't have to spend 90% of my time
trying to figure out why I'm doing
whatever I'm doing all I care about is
whether I do what I need to do to get
the outcome and if I do the thing and I
don't get the AL that means there's
another variable that I haven't
controlled or I don't
understand and if you know in the words
of BF Skinner um if many variables are
present many variables must be
studied so sometimes we want to
oversimplify but like there might be 10
cues in the environment that create a
banger session but if we have nine is it
better than the last one that had three
probably and so then we just make
progress in that
way okay so this is your superpower this
is the thing that dude I just look at
you in awe it's it's really really
incredible what you do and I am so
grateful to live on the timeline where
the internet exists and someone like you
with this insane ability comes out and
just creates all this content um you
know I am as obsessed with learning as
you are and so um yeah it's just in
incredible and to never stop learning is
is the Great gift of being a human Okay
so the thing that I think that you're
just unreasonably good at is taking a
very complex problem that maybe I'm
spending too much time and the why is
this happening and you're just skipping
past that and you're going okay I'm
going to break it down into these do
this when this happens do this when that
happens do that um I'm going to try to
get to the physics of business through a
weird question but keep in mind for
anybody watching that's that doesn't
know my story I I've been in the world
of Entrepreneurship for over 20 years
I've had some pretty incredible success
so this is a this is a well educated
question from I've been in this for a
long time so it's going to seem like a
weird angle to attack it this is for the
audience more than you um hang with me
because if we really can dissect this I
think it will help people understand the
magic thing that you do you rewrote your
book completely four
times something happened when you read
it the first time the first time that
you realized I have to start over
completely yeah
that thing whatever that was I promise
you I have the chills just thinking
about it that is the thing that makes
you good at business and so I need to
understand what abstract use the book as
an example but I I want people to
understand this is an abstracted version
of something very important which is you
were able you did a thing yeah I'm
guessing you had to do the thing in
order to find the part that wasn't right
but you were able to then identify that
part reconceptualize get more
intelligent as you did it again it's
what I call the physics of progress but
like what your ability to learn and
break into constituent Parts is is the
thing certainly I want to learn from so
when you
reread what you first wrote what clicked
do you
remember well I got feedback so I sent
the first which was really the first
draft I end up sending to people was
v9 um of the book had you Rewritten all
over how many times have you re so that
was like I had gone through I mean I
start back at the top I re-edit
everything again start back the top
without feedback correct that's the one
I want to know about okay the first time
you read through the book you're like H
I have to reconceive of the whole
approach yeah what happened in that
moment uh it wasn't clear or wasn't
simple enough that's that's it like and
um I like to use this example because it
might make sense for a lot of the
audience if I were to
say edit a six assume you know how to
edit videos just for the per the
Simplicity if I said go edit this
video someone might edit it and I say
get you know edit this video in 30
minutes and they edit the short clip and
they give it back to me and I say okay
if I give you two hours what else would
you do and they're like oh I might do
this and I might do this I might do this
I'm like okay go do that and come back
then come back and I'm like okay if I
gave you two weeks for this 30 second
clip what else would you do like I might
reimagine the entire thing and actually
lay it out in this way it would take way
more time but like I think it would
actually still be better it's like cool
do that and they come back and then when
there's no more Loops where I'm like
what else could you do to make this
better at that point to me the work is
done I have exhausted my level of skill
and understanding like I can't make the
leads book better at current now I'll
bet you in a year I'll think of some
things that I could have used to make it
better but at present moment there's
nothing that I can think that I would
either cut or add in or break down or
add a visual for uh or lower the reading
level on uh to make sure that everyone
would understand it and so whenever I
have those like it's like a a hangnail
you know what I mean it's like this
little Splinter where I'm like this
could be better does it start with a
feeling or with a fact
um it's a good question
uh
I don't know I think I read something
and I think that wasn't as clear as it
was in my it's not as clear reading it
as it is in my head so what's the
discrepancy like this term is confusing
or this phrase doesn't make sense or I
need to break this into a paragraph or
whatever it is um and honestly it's just
doing that like it took me it's funny I
had this this cover letter that I was
going to include in every book um and it
was one page and I think I put uh 25
hours into the one page
um and it's it's interesting because
people hear that they're like that's
crazy like to me 25 hours doesn't count
as one unit of work yet um thinking
hundreds dude you got it yeah 100% um
and so I ended up actually not using the
cover letter which is even more ironic
um but when my team saw how many
iterations went through it I was like
every single person will read this part
now chap you know the last chapter in
the book maybe it's 20% or maybe it's
133% or whatever it is we'll get to the
last chapter but the first page every
single person who reads the entire book
will read that page every person who
reads half the book will read that page
every person who reads only the first
chapter will read that page and so it's
like if anything I should put more time
into that but I approached just about
every page of the book that way it was
just that my team was able to see it on
one page publicly and so that's we we
wrote my editor night Dr cashi um wrote
the book because we wanted it to be
around in 100 years and so that was the
frame was like it has to be it has to
work now and the easiest way to know if
it's going to work in 100 years is does
it work 100 years
ago could someone 100 years ago read
this book and it still helped them
advertise better could someone read this
book 100 years ago and help them make an
offer that more people say yes to if the
answer is yes then we pass that Lim test
and that's actually really hard it's a
very simple sentence to say very hard to
do especially when you're talking about
media content platforms like all of
these different things um and so I think
it's having an exceptionally High bar
for what you what you want to do and
having been rewarded in the past like if
this had been my first book it wouldn't
have been as good but offers was my
first book and I wrote offers in one
fifth of the time as it took me to write
leads because you didn't hold yourself
to as high of a standard because you
knew what better looked like I'd never
been rewarded for writing a book
before and so once I was rewarded the
amount of time I'm willing to put
towards something to get rewarded again
extends so it's like intermittent
reinfor forcement from a behavior like
that's how you get addicted to the slot
machine whatever it's like you reward
the first time immediately the next time
you reward in 30 seconds the next time
humans have a have a longer attribution
than dogs do just for context um but you
can continue to extend reinforcement
until eventually you can eliminate it
and and the behavior will
persist which is kind of cool talk to me
about leverage I think that's an
important part of this puzzle so there's
a couple moments in your story around
leverage um one is is the
guy that told you hey you shouldn't be
in the gym business you should be
teaching people how to do this uh and
then the other moment at least for me on
the outside um was when you realized I'm
not going to help these guys launch
their businesses so I'm going to sell
them the course that I put together
um what's the what is leverage why does
it matter and how do people get some
okay so first off just for the just for
the audience um it was much closer to a
franchise than a course uh so it was it
was a licensing model so we had it was
more it was closer to licensing plus
Services than it was a course just
because it would just do we don't even
sell courses so like I think that that's
because there's a lot of people in that
space that follow my stuff and so they
make that assumption um which is fine
and I only set the record straight for
for clarities um beyond that um leverage
as we Define it is the difference
between what you put in and what you get
out and so if I
uh and it's volume volum times leverage
equals output so it's how many times you
do something times how much you get for
each time you do it equals output so if
I do a 100 sales calls and I have no
skill then I will get fewer scale fewer
sales than somebody who does the same
hundred sales calls and has much higher
skill so skills create leverage you get
more for what you put in at a simple at
a at at a basic level um but it works
with anything so if you're trying to
invest it's like if I can invest a
smaller amount of money and get a bigger
return then I have more leverage right
the reason debt is considered Leverage
is because you can put 20% of the cash
in and get 80% as a loan and you buy a
building five times bigger than you
normally could so you get more for what
you put in um and
so there are degrees of Leverage and
this is wholeheartedly taken from nval
um and I'll probably have to think more
about it because I haven't written the
book on Leverage yet so I'm borrowing um
but I I remember as the four C's he has
different words for it but you've got
collaboration Capital code and content
those are the four C's of Leverage um
like we make this video right now we
make this podcast and we put x amount of
effort in but we get unlimited upside on
it many millions of people can see it or
one person can see it but we get more
for what we put in the better and better
we get at this uh code you can write you
can write an app one time and then
unlimited amount of people can use the
code or use the app uh
collaboration is I say okay I will now
teach 20 guys to sell and I will get 10
times the output that I had if I were
selling and so I might not take any
sales calls but make more sales than
anybody else does because I have more
leverage um and so a big you know
through line of the leads book is
there's the core four which is the first
four things that I explain to you 10 one
one to many uh strangers and friends or
people know you people who don't and
then the other four which are the four
lead Getters people who let other people
know on your behalf which by their very
nature have more leverage because you
don't have to do it so if you can get
your customers to tell other customers
about your stuff using the core for
because they also have to use that like
a customer can only tell a customer by
telling somebody through warm Outreach
posting content about it running an ad
unlikely and doing cold Outreach also
unlikely but they could do one of those
four things and that's complete that
completes the advertising cycle so you
do something to get a lead getter who
then does the core 4 and around and
around you go so I could also make ads
to get Affiliates who then run ads to
get customers for me but if I uh go and
SP let's say I spend all my time and I
get 10 sales a month um of customers
right and let's say each customer is
worth $1,000 uh to me
great I'm going to cap at $10,000 a
month if I use the same effort of
marketing and sales and I sell 10
Affiliates so still still same number of
conversations same number of humans but
I sell 10 Affiliates per month and then
those Affiliates each month after that
get me one customer each well then the
first month I'll get $10,000 because
each one of those guys got me a customer
but then I'm still going to work and get
another 10 Affiliates next month so then
next month I'm going to have last
month's 10 plus this month's 10 so now
I'll have 20 new customers and I do it
again I have 30 new customers and so I
using the same amount of work to get
more customers then I I I directly went
through it and so that is that is a
basic example of how leverage Works uh
within the context of advertising to get
customers into business so what is
the what is the way that you think about
um constructing uh
a business or the way that you're going
to structure something so when I first
asked that question about leverage you
you said something really interesting
which was hey I just want to point out
to everybody that that was a licensing
model it meant something to you to make
a a distinction there which I have a
feeling there's there's a little bit of
hormos sauce in there that we would all
benefit from understanding what what
drove that
decision why does that matter to you you
mean saying that was structuring the
business to be so um this is exactly
what went through my head when you said
that was oh like he actually had a
more keen moment of understanding than
has come across at least to me and I've
heard you tell that story multiple times
um and I've heard you say oh it was a
licensing thing but it never I don't
know it never landed for me but this
time I realized it really meant
something to you um so there was a keen
insight there what what was the Keen
Insight why why do it as a licensed
model instead of just saying ah this is
the course go use it
if we
added assistance and services where we
would maybe run the ads for them and we
would train their sales teams which we
do um and we would give them the ads to
run for their local area and we would
help them build the landing pages to
attract customers and we would uh give
them the white label you know meal plans
grocery list for food preparation you
know instructions for their clients if
we do all of those things then we would
increase the likelihood that they would
succeed and make more money and I can
charge based on the a fraction of the
value that I can produce for the
majority of my customers and so if the
average so right now gym launch to
Company still continues to grow um the
average uh gym Lord which is what we
call the community gym Lord Lord yeah
lording um the average gym Lord uh adds
$200,000 want to say shoot I have to
know the metric a lot yeah adds this is
it there we go uh adds $200,000 a year
um to their business and 100,000 of that
is profit there there that's what the
math is so the average gym Lord adds
$100,000 a year in profit I think it's a
little bit more like18 whatever and we
can charge a percentage of the increased
net profit that we are help we were able
to help them generate on average and now
we have to usually charge a
significant uh discount on that because
half the people are going to be below
the average so for the people who are
for for half of them it's an even
crazier deal you know they they they pay
for the licensed model they don't have
to spend money to test ads we would say
we already spent 50 Grand in 20 markets
these are the winning ads this month and
they could just run them through the
system and then just collect the money
on the other side and so they get the
speed and they don't have to have they
don't have to taste the test you know
the the the failed ad test because we
would incur that cost but we able to
distribute that cost at scale so no
individual gym owner could spend $50,000
to test ads in all these different
markets we could and then get give it to
a th000
gyms and so that and again from a media
perspective uh leverage we could do that
one time and a thousand gyms can do it
at no incremental cost to us and so is a
very profitable business it still is a
very profitable business all right when
you had that moment and I'm sure people
know this part of your story you had the
moment where you're desperate
you've lost everything twice you're
scrambling to make money and you tell
the guy I'm just going to give him a
number that's high so that he doesn't
bother me with it uh six grand he's like
yes had you already thought of it as a
license model or you do those first like
whatever 150 Grand that you made uh with
the seven people or something I forget
the exact details of the story there was
like seven people that you promised to
do their gym and instead you sell them
this model had you already thought of it
in that moment as a licensed play I had
um I just I think honestly a lot of a
lot of the the words around like what we
did came from outside sources because
people saw how quickly we grew and we
were in a world that was direct response
marketing and so many people in that
world sell courses so they use the words
that they know how to describe something
um but it was much closer and arguably
like significally more support than what
a franchise does for a franchisee and
that's how we structured I wanted to be
I wanted to provide more service make
them more money for a lower fee than a
franchise would and potentially this is
smarter and um I'm really my goal in
this part of the interview is to help
people map the models that you have
running in your head that allow you to
do the things that you do um because
even from my perspective it's very
unique it's very rare you just have a a
real ability to break things down to
what I'll call the essence of the thing
um the anybody listening I will tell you
right now the biggest mistake you're
going to make is what I'll call a
category error people fail to understand
what the true essence of the thing is um
which I am as guilty of as anybody so I
don't put myself um outside of this but
have spent a lot of time trying to
understand my own failings and
shortcomings um so as I'm hearing you
tell the story I'm thinking okay one to
identify the license thing is very
shrewd and so trying to map how you
conceptualize the thing feels tied to me
to the the same idea of um understanding
that an individual gym cannot afford to
do the market testing that you can
afford to do and therefore if you do it
you now have a moat you have leverage
you have a service that you can sell
that is understanding the true nature of
the Beast yeah do you ever stop and mo
the the nature of this thing is and then
you break into constituent Parts what
does that process look like and is it
Universal or is it nail salon nature of
uh gym nature of yeah um I I boil it
down to something probably hilariously
simple uh which is number of potential
units sold times gross
profit that that's and then and then the
you know the tertiary piece what upfront
or Capital Investments required to be a
that would enable that right like if I
had if I had to go buy a machine that
could manufacture widgets that have you
know phenomenal margins because the
value that people get from it is you
know $10 and I can make them for 10
cents then that's a you know great
business but if I can only sell it to
you know one town in Alaska because it's
a really unique fishing tool that only
works in their environment uh there's
elements of that that would make it an
attractive business but there's elements
that won't so it's like it' probably be
a very small very profitable business
that could not scale um nothing wrong
with that there's definitely huge place
in the economy for things like that um
but when I'm looking at opportunities
that's what I would that is the simplest
way um of looking at it for me is number
of potential units sold uh gross profit
per unit and then what I'll call
competitive Dynamics as the as the third
part which is like if you look at you
know cell phones it's like what does it
cost them to add another cell phone to
this massive Network probably not a lot
is it really sticky yes do people stay
and pay for a long time yes okay so
there's probably a lot of gross profit
to be made there um and how many people
need you know cell phone service a lot
right it's like okay so that might be
really attractive but the competitive
Dynamics is that I would have to have I
don't know a billion dollars or I'd have
to partner with somebody that would
allow me to White Label so this is when
you get in the competitive dynamics of
like okay well is there is there value
in creating a brand and wrapping on top
of an existing solution and say hey I
might be better at marketing and sales
than you and you already have the
infrastructure to deliver cell phone
services to people Nationwide or maybe
just in this region um and I will do
what I'm good at and you deliver on the
back end and we structure some sort of
deal where you know the more volume I
get the more of the economics I get to
you know participate in so those are
kind of the the big three variables that
I look at if I'm just trying to analyze
a business uh in terms of opportunity
and the and the big piece that I think a
lot of folks will miss out on is when I
say uh gross profit um I'm talking
lifetime gross profit and so that's
where like I have less care about
recurring versus not recurring um you
know if from a and this gets into the
push and pool of selling a business or
not selling a business but you know if a
if a company has something that's super
recurring let's say it's a service like
accounting or bookkeeping
let's say there's really high you know
gross profits on that because we've
automated a ton and we've got some uh
offshore workers doing you know the
remainder of it we have really amazing
margins and it's really sticky um that
could be a super high gross profit
business but at the same time if you're
Elon Musk and you sell everyone a Tesla
and even if everyone buys one Tesla that
might be still more gross profit than
you know the bookkeeping services just
as a completely contrasting example um
and so I just look at what is the
lifetime gross profit and some of that
might be better structured recurring and
some of it might be better structured
for a one-time transaction um and then I
know I'm going into like stuff that will
probably bore the audience but if you're
looking at the business as a product
then it then it also becomes you have
two customers you have the customer that
you're selling the product to and then
you have the customer that you're going
to sell a company to um and most
customers who are investors who are
buying companies feel
better buying something that is
recurring in nature uh because then they
feel that the likelihood that they it
will continue to make money in the
future is higher
even if the Tam's huge all that stuff
they still feel they sleep better on it
until you get a premium for the company
um and so that's that's kind of big
picture how we think through what
companies we want to invest in uh or at
least the opportunities that we could
look at and then from a personal
investing perspective is how much value
can we add to that specifically like I
probably wouldn't take on a wireless
cell phone company likely but if there's
a you know a brick-and-mortar chain of
services that's like Med spas or beauty
or you know health and fit like that's
my wheelhouse like we know how to crush
those and so it decreases my risk
because I know that even from a value ad
perspective if I can 5x the company
because I know how to how to build those
marketing and sales processes at scale
at the unit level then the likelihood
that I don't get a tremendous return is
really low okay there's two things um
there one sorry soqu no no no this is
this is amazing and I I hope people are
taking this as it's intended so in fact
let me uh let me give people a frame of
reference this is the way that you
should be thinking about what we're
talking about right now which is um all
of these things abstract so that you can
think through novel problems big data
sets with a few filters so you can make
quick decisions on massive amounts of
data what do you mean by that in terms
of what we're talking about right now so
if I if I so if I so we I get every day
on my phone I'll have a list of all the
companies that have applied at
acquisition. comom and they'll be ranked
in terms of like this one looks the most
interesting these ones are less
interesting and here's why we didn't
think they were interesting for my team
and so I will basically Go pass pass
pass pass pass pass pass second call and
ask these things and then they'll go and
do that um for me to be able to quickly
make the decision because otherwise I
would I would be inundated with the
amount of data that I have to take in I
have to have filters that are faster
just LTV toac
ratio like I feel like you can boil down
most businesses to what does it cost you
to get a customer what do you make from
that customer over the life time period
that's it now Tam is you know how many
of those customers can you sell short
but like if I just had if I could only
look at one metric in a business that's
what I would look at okay so most of the
entrepreneurs that are listening to this
or people that want to be an
entrepreneur no I think they'll get that
but there that's not where they're going
to be at in their Journey that's
certainly a more advanced thing um so
the part that I want to bring you back
to is they're going to they're they're
going to be thinking through how do I
start a business what business do I
start um how do I identify the
opportunity and so there's a couple
things that you were just going through
that I think are really relevant one of
them is how you identify the business
model so um looking at a total
addressable Market uh lifetime value of
the customer versus what it costs you to
get them all 100% they will have to
figure that out or they're going to end
up doing something dumb chasing a small
opportunity
whatever um but the all of those metrics
will change based on the decision that
they make around what business model to
pursue so just by way of what a business
model is uh selling courses that's one
business model licensing seeing a
business is another business model so
people you're saying even when they try
to retell your story they are confusing
the two so uh but very different when it
comes to execution there's no recurring
course model those just wild different
so um how do you process
through if if you were starting so not
as when you're looking to acquire how do
you process through what is the right
business model to
pursue so this is pulled from my $100
million offers book which goes the point
of that book was to answer the question
what do I sell and I think that a lot of
people especially when you're starting
out you're like I need a business plan I
need a I don't think any business I've
had has had a business plan as an aside
um it's just what are we going to sell
and how are we going to get customers
and then from there we build everything
around it and so um isn't that a
business
plan I have two things on my
plan I mean I've seen like 16 page
business plans I'm like okay all these
numbers are made up it doesn't matter
like do you know how to get customers um
and
so picking the Avatar which is the
customer that you want to go after and
then picking the problem that you want
to solve for them and problem you want
to solve is I feel like kind of a trit
term in the in an entrepreneur space um
but you usually want to make their lives
easier in some way uh it's usually going
to track down a status it's going to
track down a time like those are there's
are two huge buckets that that can that
cover a lot of stuff and you know
different people say there's health
wealth and and relationships there's you
know there's a million bigger buckets
that you can try and chunk the stuff
into but if you are starting out so let
me just get you really tactical so we
were just really clouds for a second let
me just get you
tactical number one you can go and set
up all of your autos of incorporation
your LLC and all that stuff online with
a few clicks of a button in under 30
minutes so you do that step one step two
you take those papers to a bank and you
get a bank account step three you hook
up a payment processor to that bank
account which is again a series of
clicks that nowadays are almost
automated once you have those three
things you get a stranger to give you
money in exchange for doing something
for them and so I would categorize
businesses as I see them usually as you
either sell products you sell services
so physical products something like a
mug right you sell Services you do
something that they would otherwise have
to do for them you write software that
does something that a human would do for
them but because you have an auto you
have automation with code uh you can get
them to do it or you create things that
entertain people that they want to have
access to and so those basically
function into media again you've got
people products uh code and and uh and
and and content so it actually breaks
out to those four types of businesses
and I think that most people if you have
no like let's say you aren't a software
developer right and you want to start a
business uh the easiest ones to start
are
either the easiest one to start is a
service business because it only
requires your time and you to learn a
skill that other people can also learn
but some people just might not want to
do it and that is all you need to solve
and I remember like when I was in
college and I I spoke at some
universities for um for entrepreneurship
and everyone there is always like here's
my business idea right and it's always
like weird GS widgets and gizmos and
like these these never-before seen
businesses and most of those will fail
whereas like if you want to make your
first business and the big fallacy is
that the first is going to be the
forever business which it won't most
entrepreneurs have many businesses over
their career and each business you learn
elements that help you build a bigger
and better business the next time and
so you start with something that people
already buy so it's like you can look
what do people already buy they already
buy lawn care services they could mow
their lawn they just choose not to they
could optimize their website for SEO
they just choose not to they could run
their own ads they just choose not to
they could edit their own videos they
just choose not to you could set up
email you know autoresponders for people
but they choose not to you could set up
voicemails for businesses and and
transcribe it and send it to them
because for those people it saves them
time and so you can pick any problem you
want that someone already does or
already purchases look at the solutions
and you can literally just do it the
same way and have a way to get customers
that's it like that's that's it you just
reach out to people that you know oneone
you reach out to strangers oneone you
make content about the problem and you
run ads there's the only four things
that you can do to let other people know
about your stuff so once you decide what
you have to sell you then use the core
for one of them pick and then you let
people know about it until eventually
someone says yeah I'd be interested in
you solving that problem for me and
that's how you make your first dollar
all right Focus becomes the problem
people end up getting really scattered
they want to try a bunch of different
things and see what sticks um how how do
you make Focus work for you and not
against you feel like Focus can only
work for you um I guess lack of focus is
the nightmare scenario most people spend
their time in yeah I think it's um so I
love showing this visual uh and maybe we
can grab it at post for this but if you
imagine a curve right where you go uh
you start here a little bit above the
line at uninformed optimism is that you
see your buddies doing Drop Shipping and
he's making money and so you're like wow
this must be amazing I will do that too
so then you leave your current
opportunity to do or maybe you start you
start doing that then you move to stage
two so you go over the hump of
excitement and then you go to informed
pessimism now you're below the line then
you're like wow okay you have there's a
lot of other stuff it's really
competitive I don't have a brand it's
hard to differentiate you know the cost
of goods is actually continuing to rise
and so are ad costs and you start
realizing the other things that you
didn't know before so you have a a
slightly more realistic view of the
opportunity then you go to stage three
which is the value of dispare where
you're like nothing's working I don't
know what I'm doing and this point is
where everyone then jumps to uninformed
optimism in the next opportunity and
they repeat repeat one two 3 one two 3
one two 3 until they're eventually able
to learn that they just need to stomach
because every single business has
and when the grass is green on the other
side it's because there's lots of manure
there right same as yours and then you
go up to
informed optimism and then you hit
achievement and so those are the five
stages that I see most entrepreneurs
going through and they continue to cycle
the first three over and over again
until they learn the lesson so this is a
skill focus is skill I can train someone
to do it um if you're in the same
environment and you're at this point
where you're not sure what to but other
people have succeeded at this thing and
then you think something else is easier
that you find out about that is a
stimulus that we can then say here's the
red flash card are you going to duck or
are you going to get slapped and
realistically most people just need to
keep getting slapped until eventually
they realize that nothing is going to be
easy and they have to go through the
period of not knowing what they're doing
because that's like that in essence is
what entrepreneurship feels like is
uncertainty of whether or not all of the
time that you've put in is actually
going to work out and you have to get
really comfortable with that is that you
you won't know because if you were to be
guaranteed the outcome that you're going
to get what you want you wouldn't want
to do it to begin with because everyone
would already be doing it because it's
already guaranteed which means the
opportunity is gone so the opportunity
is in the uncertainty and so as long as
you can Embrace that which is why you
have to have some tolerance for risk as
an entrepreneur because you have to pay
down your tax of ignorance which we all
have to pay down every single day for
not knowing the things we should know um
and the only way you do you pay down
that tax is that you test and you
iterate and so you just want to get as
many NOS out of the way as many failures
out of the way because you're not
failing you made progress it wasn't yes
or no did it work or not it's how well
did it work and I think if you can make
even that frame shift you're like okay
well I'm reaching out to people they're
responding but I'm not getting them on
the phone okay well then you have a
scripting issue okay then you get them
on the phone okay well they're not
buying okay well then it might be an
offer issue it still might be a sales
issue depends on why they're not buying
if they're saying you know it's price
it's like you might be mispriced but you
also might just be really terrible at
explaining the value and so you just
continue to work your way down until
eventually someone's like yeah that
sounds good and they read you their
credit card or the phone and you're like
ho holy this is actually happening
and you make your first dollar and I
promise you if you make your first
dollar the second one comes a 100 times
faster than the first one
did if there are many variables present
many variables must be tested must beud
must be studied yeah uh that is
certainly uh marketing summed up yeah
there no doubt uh that people are going
to have a hard time figuring that out um
I want to better understand you just did
a book launch for um your most recent
book and it I mean you set records it
was Unreal I mean really like blue
people's minds set a standard in in the
world of online marketing um what was it
about that that or what did you
demonstrate in the way that you did that
that other people don't understand so
with each book I wanted to demonstrate
the concept of the book with the book
itself and so offers when I released it
was uh $1.99 I've now since made it free
um but it was $1.99 on Kindle it had a
course that went with it that many
people charge $5,000 or $10,000 for um
and it was the sub headline of the book
and offer so good people feel stupid
saying no and so I actually launched
that book with a single post when I had
10,000 followers on Instagram that's it
and every month after the first month it
continued to sell more and more copies
into the state continued to sell more
copies every month and that is based on
the offer being exceptional and people
sharing it because they got tremendous
value relative to what they paid that
was the that is the entire concept of
the book The the core framework of that
book is is called the the value equation
um which I won't get into but that is
basically people say the word value but
how do you operationalize value right
and so that book is about
operationalizing value making the thing
that you currently sell more valuable in
the perception of the customer so
they're willing to trade more of their
money for
it the leads book had an entirely
different core concept which was the
core four and the four lead Getters and
that is the advertising site cycle and
so it's how do you let other people know
about your stuff and so the sub headline
of that book was how to get strangers to
want to buy your stuff now to be fair
it's not it's not how to get strangers
to buy your stuff because that's sales
but how to get them to want to buy your
stuff is advertising and so this book
sits literally just between they don't
know who you are and they show interest
and that's where the book ends you get
lots of leads saying I'm interested I'd
like to find out more about your stuff
and that's all I could fit in one book
to make it actually effective and
operational for most people and so since
the concept of the book was to advertise
and to get lots of leads then I thought
it would be appropriate to advertise and
get lots of leads and I used every
method in the book all eight for the
book launch even though I could just
have made a post on my you know across
all my social medias and probably sold
plenty of books just doing that but I
wanted to show that this stuff works
today and it will work in 100 years and
it worked 100 years ago and so I went
through I had some people that I reached
out to oneon-one purposely just to check
the box I reached out to some cold
people so I could do podcasts I uh ran
ads for it even though I didn't need to
run ads we still got 137,000 people from
ads uh we had Affiliates we had 104,000
people there from Affiliates uh we had
27,000 Affiliates promote the book um we
had customer referrals people sent their
friends there so I had an incentive that
if you just get 10 people to come you'll
get two bonus chapters that aren't
released with the book uh Affiliates uh
which is the the another lead getter
right I mentioned it earlier but uh
Affiliates uh we got them uh to to
promote the book we got agencies who
actually were the ones who ran the ads
for us because we don't run ads at
holdco because we don't transact um and
then uh employees which is the fourth
type of lead getter which is they do the
core four on your behalf for you so we
had mosy media which is our internal
content team um made all the content and
the ads for that matter uh for the event
and the book itself and so I actually
only did uh 17 long uh 17 short form
pieces of content and six long form
pieces of content and then that got cut
into uh 143 posts that we did over 6
weeks uh on top of the 2200 posts that
we were making anyways uh over that same
period of time and so I used all the
methods in the book to demonstrate to
give proof that the book works and so
you know the next book I'll try and
continue that meta theme of I have
Concepts in this book and I will show
you that they work because I will use
them to Market and promote the
book The thing that I really want to
make sure that people understand and if
you think I'm crazy definely let me know
but I doubt you will um the reason that
all of that worked so well isn't what
you did at the time it's what you did
for the years leading up to that moment
um building brand uh building awareness
generating massive amounts of Goodwill
um is that like what amount of
magnification did the whatever 4ish
years leading up to the launch of that
book play in the the launch's success
ESS it was
everything I mean it was everything now
that being said you could still
absolutely use like you can still use
warm Outreach you can still use cold
Outreach you can still like and one of
the concepts in the book is making
content and I talk about how I structure
content how we pick topics how we pick
headlines how we format it how we do all
those things so that people can use that
and make content for themselves um but
usually the longer you can wait um
before making any ask and to be fair the
I gave the book for free and if if you
wanted to buy a physical copy you could
that was the whole that was let me spoil
the surprise of the launch was that I
gave everything away for free and said
if they want to buy a physical copy you
could
um I'm I can't wait to write the book on
brand because I have a lot of thoughts
on it and I can't wait to have really
clearly crystallized like unre you know
beyond reproach ideas about brand um but
I'll give you a working teaser for for
how it works but brand is basically
teaching it's associating something
people know with something they don't
know and we ass associate these things
enough that eventually I can remove this
and then you'll associate water with my
hand and so if I do that enough times
and I have you know water and you know
coffee and whatever then you might
generalize and say the hand is a
beverage thing right and I like thinking
about it that way because what do I want
people to associate me with I want
people to associate me with tremendous
value I want people to associate me with
long-term Goodwill I want them to
associate me with money right so every
book's $100 million something offers
$100 million leads um and so I want them
to associate me with investing which is
what a lot of the stories that I talk
about our companies that we've invested
in that we owned and scaled or exited
and so I we do those things so that when
you have a brand a brand is put on
something to direct someone's Behavior
it is a it's a physical sign so if you
look at the you know original the
origins of the word brand it was a brand
you put it on a cow right and so if you
have a cow that doesn't have a brand and
a cow that does have a brand you will
behave differently with a cow that has a
brand on it you're not going going to go
capture it you're not going to go kill
it you might return it to its nebor its
neighbor whatever like the brand changes
your behavior and so brands have at
least as far as I'm concerned like these
you know I haven't written the book yet
but um have kind of two two continuums
you have the strength of the brand and
then you have the positive or negative
uh inclination towards it so away or
towards so like Nazis for example have a
very strong brand away for most people
now to be fair there's also a subset of
people who are super strong towards
there's a subset of people some kind of
way right it changes their behavior yes
it does and then and then the
inclination says towards her away to
some degree um you know Donald Trump has
a strong brand right for many people for
for a percentage of the population it's
it's uh negative and for a percentage of
the population it's it's positive right
and so when we think about brands that
way it's been helpful for me because you
really answer the question who and what
do I want to associate myself with and
then by doing that eventually you your
logo and your identity will then
have a set of things that people
associate with which then will change
their behavior which is why I think
brands are the most valuable things that
you can build because it really becomes
a way to influence the behavior of the
masses at scale and so if every single
person recognizes the Nike Swoosh and I
can take a water bottle and then put a
Nike Swoosh on it and triple how much I
can charge for it and still get more
people to buy it then you can measure
the strength of the brand by the
difference in price between the
commoditized version of it and the
Branded version of it and that
translates into tremendous profits from
a from a capitalistic perspective and so
if you're trying to build something
really valuable then you make many
associations that are positive for
specific audience because uh I think
Black Rifle coffee right they're kind of
like politically charged is right so
Black Rifle coffee is going to be really
positive for people who are probably
right leaning uh in terms of their assoc
iations with that brand it'll probably
be kind of negative for the people who
are more left landing and that's okay
because they're like we can sell to half
the population whatever and so I'm I'm
kind of agnostic to the direction of it
obviously nais negative on that but like
for for most of these things I'm just
looking at what is what is the
percentage likelihood that people will
adhere or comply with the requests that
the brand makes of them buy my thing go
to this thing whatever and so that is
the that's why you can have somebody who
has a huge brand in terms of uh the
amount of people who are aware of it but
have very low ability to direct or
change behavior and so you probably I'm
sure you know this better than anyone
with Quest you guys were one of the
first ones getting in the influencer
space like way back way back when the
term influencer was a new term um and
you probably saw some people with
million person accounts and they
couldn't drive any sales and then you
saw somebody with 15,000 and crushed it
because they had a stronger brand for a
narrower audience even if it was just
like a a girl cop who has an audience of
all girl cops they might have lots of
positive associations with that person
and then be more likely to you know
comply with whatever request they have
and so I know this is a branding
discussion um but the reason that I
think many people wanted to come to the
event is because they rewarded in the
past for consuming content for reading
my last book and so they felt like the
likelihood that I was going to reward
them again at this event would be high
and I try to like I'll tell you a secret
I try to make many promises and keep all
of them and the more times you can make
promises and keep promises the higher
the likelihood people will ascribe to
you for being somebody who is
predictable in a good way if he said
this will happen this is what's going to
happen if he said it's going to be worth
it it's going to be worth it and so that
was woven in for the 24 months from the
time I released offers to the time we
did leads was trying to actively build
up the Goodwill so that um we could set
records and do something really cool and
Demon demonstrate the concepts in the
book in the real world so that people
could know that it would work for them
too no man it's incredible it's
breathtaking um what you guys were able
to do what was the record that you broke
so the Guinness Book World Records for a
business virtual conference live was
21,000 for a business conference so you
absolutely demolished yeah that which is
really cool that's awesome I will say
this as an aside uh I think the the the
the Fanfare about the launch will
decrease soonish and I think that the
actual contents of the book is going to
be the thing that that can that people
that is that machine will start spitting
because inside of the book referrals is
always the one that I always try and
drive the most in any business I have
because it's the lowest cost to a car
customers not that it's a customer
acquisition thing for me but um or sorry
not a money-making thing for me books
are not the best way to make money just
throw that out there um but it can
create a viral effect so that you can
get more customers every month without
paying cost to acquire and so the
mission of acquisition. comom is to make
real business education accessible for
everyone and so in order to do that I
can't do it alone and so that is why I
have to have other people help me if you
want to learn how waking up at 3:30 a.m.
can completely change your life be sure
to click here check it out your life
will change forever the moment that you
decide to get up early and really attack
your day go to bed at the same time
every
day